<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="ch6" name="ch6"/>VI. — INTRODUCES AN ANT-EATER AND A DETECTIVE</h2>
			<p class="first">As we entered the hall of the College of Surgeons Thorndyke glanced at the board on which the names of the staff were painted and gave a little grunt of satisfaction.</p>
			<p>‘I see,’ he said, addressing the porter, ‘that Mr. Saltwood hasn’t gone yet.’</p>
			<p>‘No, sir,’ was the reply. ‘He is working up at the top tonight. Shall I take you up to him?’</p>
			<p>‘If you please,’ answered Thorndyke, and the porter accordingly took us in charge and led the way to the lift. From the latter we emerged into a region tenanted by great earthenware pans and jars and pervaded by a curious aroma, half spirituous, half cadaveric, on which I commented unfavourably.</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ said Thorndyke, sniffing appreciatively, ‘the good old museum bouquet. You smell it in all curators’ rooms, and though, I suppose, it is not physically agreeable, I find it by no means unpleasant. The effects of odours are largely a matter of association.’</p>
			<p>‘The present odour,’ said I, ‘seems to suggest the association of a very overripe Duke of Clarence and a butt of shockingly bad malmsey.’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke smiled tolerantly as we ascended a flight of stairs that led to a yet higher storey, and abandoned the discussion. At the top, we passed through several long galleries, past ranges of tables piled up with incredible numbers of bones, apparently awaiting disposal, until we were finally led by our conductor to a room in which two men were working at a long bench, on which were several partially articulated skeletons of animals. They both looked up as we entered, and one of them, a keen-faced, middle-aged man, exclaimed: ‘Well, this is an unexpected pleasure. I haven’t seen you for donkey’s years, Thorndyke. Thought you had deserted the old shop. And I wonder what brings you here now.’</p>
			<p>‘The usual thing, Saltwood. Self-interest. I have come to negotiate a loan. Have you got any loose bones of the Echidna?’</p>
			<p>Saltwood stroked his chin and turned interrogatively to his assistant. ‘Do you know if there are any, Robson?’ he asked.</p>
			<p>‘There is a set waiting to be articulated, sir. Shall I fetch them?’</p>
			<p>‘If you would, please, Robson,’ replied Saltwood. Then turning to my colleague, he asked: ‘What bones do you want, Thorndyke?’</p>
			<p>‘The middle cervical vertebrae⁠—about the third or fourth,’ was the reply, at which I pricked up my ears.</p>
			<p>In a few minutes Robson returned carrying a cardboard box on which was a label inscribed ‘Echidna hystrix.’</p>
			<p>Saltwood lifted the lid, disclosing a collection of small bones, including a queer little elongated skull.</p>
			<p>‘Here you are,’ said he, picking out a sort of necklace formed of the joints of the backbone; ‘here is the whole vertebral column, minus the tail, strung together. Will you take it as it is?’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘I will just take the three vertebrae that I want⁠—the third, fourth, and fifth cervical, and if I let you have them back in the course of the week, will that do?’</p>
			<p>‘Perfectly. I wouldn’t bother you to return them at all if it were not for spoiling the set.’ He separated the three little bones from the string, and having wrapped them in tissue paper and handed them to Thorndyke, asked; ‘How is Jervis? I haven’t seen him very lately, either.’</p>
			<p>‘Jervis,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘is at present enjoying a sort of professional holiday in New York. He is retained, in an advisory capacity, in the Rosenbaum case, of which you may have read in the papers. My friend Anstey here is very kindly filling his place during his absence.’</p>
			<p>‘I’m glad to hear that I’m filling it,’ said I, as Saltwood bowed and shook hands. ‘I was afraid I was only half filling it, being but a mere lawyer destitute of medical knowledge.’</p>
			<p>‘Well,’ said Saltwood, ‘medical knowledge is important, of course, but you’ve always got Thorndyke to help you out. Oh⁠—and that reminds me, Thorndyke, that I’ve got some new preparations that I should like you to see, a series of tumours from wild animals. Will you come and have a look at them? They are in the next room.’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke assented with enthusiasm, and the two men went out of the room, leaving me to the society of Robson and the box of bones. Into the latter I peered curiously, again noting the odd shape of the skull; then I proceeded to improve the occasion by a discreet question or two.</p>
			<p>‘What sort of beast is an Echidna?’ I asked.</p>
			<p>‘Echidna hystrix,’ replied Robson in a somewhat pompously didactic tone, ‘is the zoological name of the porcupine ant-eater.’</p>
			<p>‘Indeed,’ said I, and then tempted by his owlish solemnity to ask foolish questions, I inquired: ‘Does that mean that he is an eater of porcupine ants?’</p>
			<p>‘No, sir,’ he replied gravely (he was evidently a little slow in the uptake). ‘It is not the ants which are porcupines. It is the ant-eater.’</p>
			<p>‘But,’ I objected, ‘how can an ant-eater be a porcupine? It is a contradiction in terms.’</p>
			<p>This seemed to floor him for a moment, but he pulled himself together and explained: ‘The name signifies a porcupine which resembles an ant-eater, or perhaps one should say, an ant-eater, which resembles a porcupine. It is a very peculiar animal.’</p>
			<p>‘It must be,’ I agreed. ‘And what is there peculiar about its cervical vertebrae?’</p>
			<p>He pondered profoundly, and I judged that he did not know but was not going to give himself away, a suspicion that his rather ambiguous explanation tended to confirm.</p>
			<p>‘The cervical vertebrae,’ he expounded, ‘are very much alike in most animals. There are exceptions, of course, as in the case of the porpoise, which has no neck, and the giraffe, which has a good deal of neck. But in general, cervical vertebrae seem to be turned out pretty much to one pattern, whereas the tail vertebrae present great differences. Now, if you look at this animal’s tail⁠—’ here he fished a second necklace out of the box and proceeded to expound the peculiarities of its constituent bones, to which exposition I am afraid I turned an inattentive ear. The Echidna’s tail had no bearing on the identity of Mr. Halliburton.</p>
			<p>The rather windy discourse had just come to an end when my two friends reappeared and Saltwood conducted us down to the hall. As we stepped out of the lift he shook our hands heartily, and with a cheery adieu, pressed the button and soared aloft like a stage fairy.</p>
			<p>From the great portico of the College we turned eastward and walked homewards across Lincoln’s Inn, each of us wrapped in his own reflections. Presently I asked:</p>
			<p>‘Supposing this mascot of Halliburton’s to be the neck bone of an Echidna, what is the significance of the fact?’</p>
			<p>‘Ah!’ he replied. ‘There you have me, Anstey. At present I am concerning myself only with the fact, hoping that its significance may appear later. To us it may have no significance at all. Of course there is some reason why this particular bone should have been used rather than some other kind of bone, but that set of circumstances may have⁠—probably has⁠—no connection with our inquiry. It is quite probable that Halliburton himself has no such connection. On the other hand, the circumstances which determined the use of an Echidna’s vertebra as a mascot may have an important bearing on the case. So we can only secure the fact and wait for time and further knowledge to show whether it is or is not a relevant fact.’</p>
			<p>‘And do you mean to say that you are taking all this trouble on the mere chance that this apparently trivial and meaningless circumstance may possibly have some bearing?’</p>
			<p>‘That is so. But your question, Anstey, exhibits the difference between the legal and the scientific outlook. The lawyer’s investigations tend to proceed along the line of information wanted: the scientists tend to proceed along the line of information available. The business of the man of science is impartially to acquire all the knowledge that is obtainable; the lawyer tends to concern himself only with that which is material to the issue.’</p>
			<p>‘Then the scientist must accumulate a vast number of irrelevant facts.’</p>
			<p>‘Every fact,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘is relevant to something, and if you accumulate a great mass of facts, inspection of the mass shows that the facts can be sorted out into related groups from which certain general truths can be inferred. The difference between the lawyer and the scientist is that one is seeking to establish some particular truth while the other seeks to establish any truth that emerges from the available facts.’</p>
			<p>‘But,’ I objected ‘surely even a scientist must select his facts to some extent. Every science has its own province. The chemist, for instance, is not concerned with the metamorphoses of insects.’</p>
			<p>‘That is true; he admitted. ‘But then, are we not keeping within our own province? We are not collecting facts indiscriminately, but are selecting those facts which make some sort of contact with the circumstances of this crime and which may therefore conceivably be relevant to our inquiry. But methinks I perceive another collector. Isn’t that our friend Superintendent Miller crossing to King’s Bench Walk and apparently bearing down on our chambers?’</p>
			<p>I looked at the tall figure, indistinctly seen by the light of a lamp, and even as I looked, it ascended the steps and vanished into our entry; and when, a couple of minutes later, we arrived on our landing, we found Polton in the act of admitting the Superintendent.</p>
			<p>‘Well, gentlemen,’ the officer said genially, as he subsided into an armchair and selected a cigar from the box which Thorndyke handed to him ‘I’ve just dropped in to give you the news⁠—about this Drayton case, you know. I thought you’d be interested to hear what our people are doing. Well, I don’t think you need trouble yourselves about it any more. We’ve got one of the men, at any rate.’</p>
			<p>‘In custody?’ asked Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>‘No, we haven’t actually made the arrest, but there will be no difficulty about that. We know who he is. I just passed those fingerprints in to Mr. Singleton and he gave me the name straight away. And who do you think it is? It is our old friend, Moakey⁠—Joe Hedges, you know.’</p>
			<p>‘Is it really!’ said Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>‘Yes, Moakey it is. You’re surprised. So was I. I really did think he had learned a little sense at last, especially as he seemed to be taking some reasonable precautions last time. But he always was a fool. Do you remember the asinine thing that he did on that last job?’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘I don’t remember that case.’</p>
			<p>‘It was a small country house job, and Moakey did it all on his own. And it did look as if he had learned his lesson, for he undoubtedly wore gloves. We found them in his bag and there was not a trace at the house. But would you believe it, when he’d finished up, all neat and ship-shape, he must stop somewhere in the grounds to repack the swag⁠—after he had taken his gloves off. Just then the alarm was raised and a dog let loose, and away went Moakey, like a hare, for the place in the fence where he had hidden his bicycle. He nipped over the fence, mounted his bike, and got clear away, and all trace of him seemed to be lost. But in the morning, when the local police came to search the grounds, they found a silver tray that Moakey had evidently had to drop when he heard the dog, with a most beautiful set of fingerprints on it. The police got a pair of photographs at once⁠—there happened to be a dark room and a set of apparatus in the house⁠—and sent a special messenger with them to Scotland Yard. And then the murder was out. They were Moakey’s prints, and Moakey was arrested the same day with all the stuff in his possession. He hadn’t had time to go to a fence with it. So the fingerprints didn’t have to be put in evidence.’</p>
			<p>‘Did Moakey ever hear about the fingerprints?’ Thorndyke asked.</p>
			<p>‘Yes. Some fool of a warder told him. And that’s what makes this case so odd; to think that after coming a cropper twice he should have gone dabbing his trademarks over the furniture as he has, is perfectly incredible. And that isn’t the only queer feature in the case. There’s the stuff. I got Sir Lawrence to show it to me this morning, and I assure you that when I saw what it was, you could have knocked me down with a feather. To say nothing of the crockery and wineglasses and rubbish of that sort and the pewter spoons and brass spoons and bone bobbins, the jewellery was a fair knockout. There was only one cabinet of it, and you’ll hardly believe me. Doctor, when I tell you that the greater part of it was silver, and even pinchbeck and brass⁠—or latten, as Sir Lawrence calls it⁠—set with the sort of stones that you can buy in Poland Street for ten bob a dozen. You never saw such trash!’</p>
			<p>‘Oh come. Miller,’ Thorndyke protested, ‘don’t call it trash. It is one of the most interesting and reasonable collections that I have ever seen.’</p>
			<p>‘So it may be,’ said the Superintendent, ‘but I am looking at it from the trade point of view. Why, there isn’t a fence outside Bedlam who’d give a fiver for the whole boiling. It’s perfectly astonishing to me that an experienced tradesman like Moakey should have wasted his time on it. He might just as well have cracked an ironmonger’s.’</p>
			<p>‘I expect,’ said I, ‘he embarked on the job under a mistake. Probably he saw, or heard of, that article in the Connoisseur and thought that this was a great collection of jewels.’</p>
			<p>‘That seems likely,’ Miller agreed. ‘And that may account for his having worked with a chum this time instead of doing the job single-handed as he usually does. But it doesn’t account for his having used a pistol. That wasn’t his way at all. There has never been a charge of violence against him before. I always took him for the good old-fashioned, sporting crook who played the game with us and expected us to play the game with him.’</p>
			<p>‘Is it clear that it was Moakey who fired the shot?’ asked Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>‘Well, no, I don’t know that it is. But he’ll have to stand the racket unless he can prove that somebody else did it. And that won’t be so very easy, for even if he gives us the name of the other man⁠—the small man⁠—and Miss Blake can identify him, still it will be difficult for Moakey to prove that the other man fired the shot, and the other chap isn’t likely to be boastful about it.’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ said Thorndyke, ‘he will pretty certainly put it on to Moakey, But between the two we may get at the truth as to what happened.’</p>
			<p>‘We will hope so,’ said Miller, rising and picking up his hat. ‘At any rate, that is how the matter stands. I understand that Sir Lawrence wants you to keep an eye on the case, but there’s really no need. It isn’t in your line at all. We shall arrest Moakey and he will be committed for trial. If he likes to make a statement we may get the other man, but in any case there is nothing for you to do.’</p>
			<p>For some minutes after the Superintendent’s departure, Thorndyke sat looking into the fire with an air of deep reflection. Presently he looked up as if he had disposed of some question that he had been propounding to himself and remarked: ‘It’s a curious affair, isn’t it?’</p>
			<p>‘Very,’ I agreed. ‘It seems as if this man, Moakey, had thrown all precaution to the winds. By the way, do you suppose those fingerprint people ever make mistakes? They seem pretty cocksure.’</p>
			<p>‘They would be more than human if they never made a mistake,’ Thorndyke replied. ‘But, on the other hand, the identification of a whole set of fingerprints doesn’t leave much room for error. You might get two prints that were similar enough to admit of a mistake, but you would hardly get two sets that could be mistaken for one another.’</p>
			<p>‘No, I suppose not. So the mystery remains unexplained.’</p>
			<p>‘It remains unexplained in any case,’ said Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>‘How do you mean?’ I asked. ‘If they had made a mistake and these were really the fingerprints of some unknown person, that person might be a novice and there would be no mystery about his having taken no precautions.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes, but that is not the mystery. The real mystery is the presence of a third man who has left no other traces.’</p>
			<p>‘A third man!’ I exclaimed. ‘What evidence is there of the presence of a third man?’</p>
			<p>‘It is very obvious,’ replied Thorndyke. These fingerprints are not those of the small man, because he wore gloves. And they are not the fingerprints of the tall man.’</p>
			<p>‘How do you know that?’ I asked.</p>
			<p>Thorndyke rose, and opening a cabinet, took out the plaster cast of the tall man’s left hand, which he had made on the previous night, and the pair of photographs.</p>
			<p>‘Now,’ said he, ‘look at the print of the left forefinger in the photograph. You see that the pattern is quite clear and unbroken. Now look at the cast of the forefinger. Do you see what I mean?’</p>
			<p>‘You mean that pit or dent in the bulb of the finger. But isn’t that due to an irregularity of the ground on which the finger was pressed?’</p>
			<p>‘No, it is the puckered scar of an old whitlow or deep wound of some kind. It is quite characteristic. And the print of this finger would show a blank white space in the middle of the pattern. So it is certain that those fingerprints did not belong to either of these two men.’</p>
			<p>‘Then, really,’ said I, ‘the fact that these are Moakey’s fingerprints serves to explain this other mystery.’</p>
			<p>‘To some extent. But you see, Anstey, that it introduces a further mystery. If there were three men in that room, or on the premises, how comes it that there were only two sets of footprints?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes, that is rather extraordinary. Can you suggest any explanation?’</p>
			<p>‘The only explanation that occurs to me is that one of these men may have let Moakey into the house by the front door, that he may have been in the room when Miss Blake entered⁠—he might, for instance, have been behind the door⁠—and have slipped out when she ran to the window. He could then have to run into the drawing-room and waited until she rushed out of the house, when it would be easy for him to slip out at the front door and escape.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ I said dubiously, ‘I suppose that is possible, but it doesn’t sound very probable.’</p>
			<p>‘It doesn’t,’ he agreed. ‘But it is the only solution that I can think of at the moment. Of course there must be some explanation, for there are the facts. Inside the house are traces of three men. Outside are traces of only two. Have you any suggestion to offer?’</p>
			<p>I shook my head. ‘It is beyond me, Thorndyke. Why didn’t you ask Miller?’</p>
			<p>‘Because I am not proposing to take the police into my confidence until I have evidence that they are prepared to do the same by me. They will probably assume that the tall man was Moakey⁠—he is about the same height. The information that we obtain from the cast of that man’s hand is not, you must remember, in their possession.’</p>
			<p>‘No, I had forgotten that. And now I begin to appreciate my learned senior’s foresight in taking a permanent record of that handprint.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ said Thorndyke. ‘A permanent record is invaluable. It allows of reference at one’s leisure and in connection with fresh evidence, as in the present case. And, moreover, it allows of study under the most favourable conditions. That scar on the finger was not noticeable in the impression in the sand, especially by the imperfect light of the lamp. But on the cast, which we can examine at our ease, by daylight if necessary, it is plainly visible. And we have it here to compare with the finger, if ever that finger should be forthcoming. I now make a rule of securing a plaster cast of any object that I cannot retain in my possession.’</p>
			<p>Here, as if in illustration of this last statement, Polton entered the room bearing a small tray lined with blotting paper, on which lay three objects⁠—a diminutive glass negative and two mascots. He laid the tray on the table and invited us to inspect his works, tendering a watchmakers eyeglass to assist the inspection.</p>
			<p>Thorndyke picked up the two mascots and examined them separately through the glass, then with a faint smile, but without remark, he passed the tray to me. I stuck the glass in my eye and scrutinised first one and then the other of the mascots, and finally looked up at Polton, who was watching me with a smile that covered his face with wrinkles of satisfaction.</p>
			<p>‘I suppose, Polton,’ I said, ‘You have some means of telling which is which, but I’m hanged if I can see a particle of difference.’</p>
			<p>‘I can tell ’em by the feel, sir,’ he replied ‘but I took the precaution to weigh the original in the chemical balance before I made the copy. I think the colour matches pretty well.’</p>
			<p>‘It is a perfect reproduction, Polton,’ said Thorndyke. ‘If we were to show it to Superintendent Miller he would want to take your fingerprints right away. He would say that you were not a safe person to be at large.’</p>
			<p>At this commendation Polton’s countenance crinkled until he looked like a species of human walnut, and when the photograph of the signature had been examined and pronounced fit for the making of an enlargement, he departed, chuckling audibly.</p>
			<p>When he had gone, I picked up one of the mascots and again examined it closely while Thorndyke made a similar inspection of its twin.</p>
			<p>‘Had you any definite purpose in your mind,’ I asked ‘when you instructed Polton to make this indistinguishable copy?’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ he replied. ‘I thought it wise to preserve a record of the thing, but, for my own information, a plain plaster cast would have answered quite well. Still, as it would not take much more trouble to imitate the colour and texture, I decided that there might be some advantage in having a perfect replica. There are certain imaginable circumstances in which it might be useful. I shall get Polton to make a cast of the Echidna’s vertebra, so that we may have the means of demonstrating the nature of the object to others, if necessary; and by the way, we may as well make the comparison now and confirm my opinion that the animal really was an Echidna.’</p>
			<p>He produced the little packet that Saltwood had given him, and laying the little bones on the table, compared them carefully with the mascot.</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ he said at length, ‘I was right. Mr. Halliburton’s treasure is the third cervical vertebra of a young but full-grown Echidna.’</p>
			<p>‘How did you recognise this as an Echidna’s vertebra?’ I asked, recalling Mr. Robson’s rather obscure exposition on the subject. ‘Aren’t neck vertebrae a good deal alike in most animals?’</p>
			<p>‘In animals of the same class they are usually very much alike. But the Echidna is a transitional form. Although it is a mammal, it has many well-marked reptilian characters. This vertebra shows one of them. If you look at those corner-pieces⁠—the transverse processes⁠—you will see that they are separate from the rest of the bone, that they are joined to it by a seam or suture. But in all other mammals, with a single exception, the transverse processes are fused with the rest of the bone. There is no separating line. That suture was the distinguishing feature which attracted my attention.’</p>
			<p>‘And does the fact of its being an Echidna’s bone suggest any particular significance to your mind?’</p>
			<p>‘Well,’ he replied, ‘the Echidna is far from a common animal. And this particular bone seems to have been worked on by some barbarian artist, which suggests that it may have been originally a barbaric ornament or charm or fetish, which again suggests personal connections and a traceable history. You will notice that the two letters seem to have been impressed on the ornament and have no connection with it, which suggests that the bone was already covered with these decorations when it came into the late owner’s possession.’</p>
			<p>I took up the glass and once more examined the mascot. The whole surface of the little bone, on both sides, was covered with an intricate mass of ornament consisting principally of scrolls or spirals, crude and barbaric in design but very minutely and delicately executed. In the centre of the solid part of the bone an extremely small ‘o’ had been indented on one side and on the same spot on the reverse side an equally minute ‘h’. And through the glass I could see that the letters cut into the pattern, whereas the hole for the suspension ring was part of the original work and was incorporated into the design.</p>
			<p>‘I wonder why he used small letters for his initials instead of capitals,’ said I.</p>
			<p>‘For the reason, I imagine, that they were small letters. He wanted them merely for identification, and no doubt wished them to be as inconspicuous as possible. Any letters are a disfigurement when they are not part of the design, and capitals would have been much worse than small letters.’</p>
			<p>‘These seem to have been punched, on with printer’s types.’ I remarked.</p>
			<p>‘They have been punched, not cut, but not, I should say, with printer’s types. Type metal⁠—even the hard variety which would be used for casting these little “Pearl” or “Diamond” types⁠—is comparatively soft, and the harder varieties are brittle. It would scarcely be strong enough to bear hammering into bone. I should say these letters were indented with steel punches.’</p>
			<p>‘Well,’ I said ‘we have got a vast amount of entertainment out of Mr. Halliburton and his mascot. But it looks rather as if that were going to be the end of it, for if Moakey is one of the robbers, we may take it that the others are just professional crooks. And thereupon Mr. Halliburton recedes once more into the background. Isn’t that the position?’</p>
			<p>‘Apparently it is,’ replied Thorndyke. ‘But we shall see what happens at the inquest. Possibly some further evidence may be forthcoming when the witnesses give their accounts in detail. And possibly Moakey himself may be able to throw some further light on the matter. They will probably have him in custody within a day or two.’</p>
			<p>‘By the way,’ I said, ‘have you examined the hair that poor Drayton had grasped in his hand?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes. There is nothing very characteristic about it. It is dark in colour and the hairs are rather small in diameter. But there was one slightly odd circumstance. Among the tuft of dark hairs there was one light one⁠—not white⁠—a blonde hair. It had no root and no tip. It was just a broken fragment. What do you make of that?’</p>
			<p>‘I don’t know that I make anything of it. I understand that a man may sometimes find a woman’s hair sticking to his coat in the neighbourhood of the shoulder or chest, though I have no personal experience of such things. But if on the coat, why not on the head? My learned senior’s powerful constructive imagination might conceive circumstances in which such a transfer of hair might occur. Or has he some more recondite explanation?’</p>
			<p>‘There are other possible explanations,’ Thorndyke replied. ‘And as the hour seems to preclude a return to Hampstead tonight, and seems to suggest a temporary tenancy of Jervis’s bedroom, I would recommend the problem for my learned friend’s consideration while awaiting the approach of Morpheus or Hypnos, whichever deity he elects to patronize.’</p>
			<p>This gentle hint, enforced by a glance at my watch, brought our discussion to an end, and very shortly afterwards we betook ourselves to our respective sleeping apartments.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
