<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="ch15" name="ch15"/>XV. — THE SQUIRE AND THE SLEUTH-HOUND</h2>
			<p class="first">As Mr. Blake approached with the evident intention of addressing us, it was not unnatural that I should look at him with some interest. Not that such interest was in any way justified by his appearance, which was quite commonplace. He was a tall man, strongly built, and apparently active and muscular. His features were somewhat coarse, but his expression was resolute and energetic, though not suggestive of more than average intelligence. But at the moment, as he bore down on us, leading his horse by the bridle-rein, with his eyes fixed on Thorndyke’s face, suspicion and a certain dim suggestion of surprise were what I principally gathered from his countenance.</p>
			<p>‘May I ask what your business is?’ he demanded somewhat brusquely, but not rudely, addressing Thorndyke and looking at him with something more than common attention.</p>
			<p>‘We really haven’t any business at all,’ my colleague replied. ‘We were walking through the district and thought we should like to have a glance at your very picturesque and interesting house. That is all.’</p>
			<p>‘Is there anything in particular that you want to know about the house?’ Mr. Blake asked, still addressing Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>‘No,’ the latter replied. ‘Our interest in the place is merely antiquarian, and not very profound at that.’</p>
			<p>‘I see,’ said Mr. Blake. He appeared to reflect for a few moments and seemed to be on the point of moving away when he stopped suddenly and a quick change passed over his face. At the same moment I noticed that his eyes were fixed intently on Thorndyke’s ridiculous mascot.</p>
			<p>‘I take it,’ said he,’ that you had the lodge-keeper’s permission to come inside the gates?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ Thorndyke replied. ‘He gave us permission⁠—through the inn-keeper, who asked him⁠—to come in far enough to see the house. As far as we have come, in fact.’</p>
			<p>Mr. Blake nodded, and again his eyes wandered to the object attached to Thorndyke’s watch-chain.</p>
			<p>‘You are looking at my mascot,’ the latter said genially. ‘It is a curious thing, isn’t it?’</p>
			<p>‘Very,’ Blake agreed gruffly. ‘What is it?’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke pulled the soft wire ring open, and detaching it from his chain, handed the little object to the other, who examined it curiously and remarked:</p>
			<p>‘It seems to be made out of a bone.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes; the bone of a porcupine ant-eater.’</p>
			<p>‘Ha. You got it somewhere abroad. I suppose?’</p>
			<p>‘No; replied Thorndyke. ‘I found it in London, and, of course, it isn’t really mine. It belongs to a man named Halliburton. But I don’t happen to have his address at the moment, so I can’t return it.’</p>
			<p>Mr. Blake listened to this explanation with a sort of puzzled frown, wondering, perhaps, at my colleague’s uncalled-for expansiveness to an utter stranger. But his wonder was nothing to mine, as I heard the usually secretive Thorndyke babbling in this garrulously confidential fashion.</p>
			<p>When he had examined the mascot, Mr. Blake handed it back to Thorndyke with an inarticulate grunt, and as my colleague hooked the ring on his watch-chain, he turned away, walked round his horse to the off-side, mounted lightly to the saddle and started the horse forward at a trot. As he disappeared round a bend of the tree-bordered road, I glanced at Thorndyke, who was once more gazing calmly at the house.</p>
			<p>‘Mine host was right; I observed. ‘Squire Blake is a pretty considerable boor.’</p>
			<p>‘His manners are certainly not engaging,’ Thorndyke agreed.</p>
			<p>‘I didn’t notice that he had any manners,’ said I, ‘and it seemed to me that you were most unnecessarily civil, not to say confidential.’</p>
			<p>‘Well, you know,’ he replied, ‘we are on his premises, and not only uninvited, but contrary to his expressed wishes. We could hardly be otherwise than civil. And after all, he didn’t eject us. But I suppose we may as well retire now.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ I agreed, ‘he is probably waiting to see us off his confounded land, and possibly speaking his mind to the lodge-keeper.’</p>
			<p>Both these surmises appeared to be correct, for when we came round the clump of trees at the turn of the road, I saw the squire in earnest conversation with the keeper, who was standing at attention, holding the gate open, and, I thought, looking somewhat abashed. We passed out through the wicket, which was still unfastened, but though the lodge-keeper looked at us attentively, and even a little curiously, Blake gave no sign of being aware of our existence.</p>
			<p>‘Well,’ said I, ‘he is an unmannerly hog. But he has one redeeming feature. He is a man of taste. He did admire you, Thorndyke. While you were talking he couldn’t keep his eyes off you.’</p>
			<p>‘Possibly he was trying to memorise my features in case I should turn out to be a swell cracksman.’</p>
			<p>I laughed at the idea of even such a barbarian as this mistaking my distinguished-looking colleague for a member of the swell mob. But it was not impossible. And certainly the squire had scrutinised my friend’s features with an intensity that nothing but suspicion could justify.</p>
			<p>‘Perhaps,’ said I, ‘he suffers from an obsession on the subject of burglars. Our host’s remarks seemed to suggest something of the kind. I wonder what he was saying to the lodge-keeper. It looked to me as if the custodian was receiving a slight dressing-down on our account.’</p>
			<p>‘Probably he was,’ replied Thorndyke. ‘But I think that, if my learned friend had happened to be furnished with eyes in the back of his head⁠—’</p>
			<p>‘As my learned senior appears to be,’ I interjected.</p>
			<p>‘⁠—he would already have formed a more definite opinion as to what took place. In the absence of the retrocephalic arrangement, I suggest that we slip through this opening in the hedge and sit down under the bank.’</p>
			<p>Stooping to avoid the thick upper foliage, he dived through the opening and I followed, with no small curiosity as to what it was that my extraordinarily observant colleague had seen. Presumably some one was following us, and if so, as the opening occurred at a sharp bend of the road, our disappearance would have been unobserved.</p>
			<p>‘It is my belief, Thorndyke,’ I said, as we sat down under the bank, ‘that your optical arrangements are like those of the giraffe. I believe you can see all round the horizon at once.’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke laughed softly. ‘The human field of vision, Anstey,’ said he, ‘as measured by the perimeter, is well over a hundred and eighty degrees. It doesn’t take much lateral movement of the head to convert it into three hundred and sixty. The really important factor is not optical but mental. That earnest conversation with the gatekeeper suggested a possibility, though a rather remote one. Ordinary human eyesight, used with the necessary attention, was quite sufficient to show that the improbable had happened, as it often does. Hush! Look through that chink in the hedge.’</p>
			<p>As he concluded in a whisper, rapid footfalls became audible. Nearer and nearer they approached, and then, through my spy-hole, I saw a man in cord breeches and leggings and a velveteen coat walk swiftly past. The gatekeeper had been dressed thus, and presumably the man was he, though I had not observed him closely enough to be able to recognise him with certainty.</p>
			<p>‘Now, why is he following us?’ I asked, taking the identity for granted.</p>
			<p>‘We mustn’t assume that he is following us at all with a definite intent, though I suspect he is. But he may be merely going the same way. He may have business in Wendover.’</p>
			<p>‘It would be rather amusing to dodge him once or twice and see what his game is,’ I said with the schoolboy instinct that lingers on, if atavistically, in the adult male.</p>
			<p>‘It would be highly amusing,’ Thorndyke agreed, ‘but it wouldn’t serve our purpose, which is to ascertain his purpose and keep our knowledge to ourselves. We had better move on now if he is out of sight.’</p>
			<p>He was out of sight, having reached and turned down the Tring Road. We followed at a sharp walk, and as we came out into the Tring Road, behold him standing in the footway a couple of hundred yards towards Wendover, looking about him with a rather foolish air of bewilderment. As soon as he saw us, he lifted his foot to the bank and proceeded to attend to his bootlace.</p>
			<p>‘We won’t notice him,’ said Thorndyke. ‘He is evidently an artless soul and probably believes that he has not been recognised. Let us encourage that eminently desirable belief.’</p>
			<p>We passed him with an almost aggressive appearance of unconsciousness on both sides, and pursued our way along the undulating road.</p>
			<p>‘I don’t think there is much doubt now that he is following us,’ said I, ‘and the question is, why is he doing it?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ said Thorndyke, ‘that is the question. He may have had instructions to see us safely out of the district, or he may have had further instructions. We shall see when we get to the station. Meanwhile I am tempted to try a new invention of Polton’s. It is slightly fantastic, but he made me promise to carry it in my pocket and try it when I had a chance. Now, here is the chance, and here is the instrument.’</p>
			<p>He took from his pocket a leather case from which he extracted a rather solidly-made pair of spectacles. ‘You see,’ he said, ‘Polton has long had the idea that I ought to be provided with some means of observing what is going on behind me, and he has devised this apparatus for the purpose. Like all Polton’s inventions, it is quite simple and practicable. As you see, it consists of a rigid spectacle-frame fitted with dummy glasses⁠—clear, plain glass⁠—at the outer edge of which is fixed a little disc of speculum-metal worked to an optically true plane surface and set at a minute angle to the glass. As the disc is quite close to the eye, it enables the wearer, by the very slightest turn of the head, to get a clear view directly behind him. Would you like to try it?’</p>
			<p>I took the spectacles from him and put them on, and was amazed at their efficiency. Although the discs were hardly bigger than split peas, they gave me a perfectly clear view along the road behind us⁠—as if I had been looking through a small, round hole⁠—and this with a scarcely appreciable turn of the head. Viewed from behind, I must have appeared to be looking straight before me.</p>
			<p>‘But,’ I exclaimed, ‘it seems a most practical device, and I shall insist on Polton making me a pair.’</p>
			<p>‘That will please him,’ said Thorndyke, and he added, reflectively ‘if only there were a few thousand more Poltons⁠—men who found their satisfaction in being useful and giving pleasure to their fellows⁠—what a delightful place this world would be!’</p>
			<p>I continued to wear the magic spectacles all the way to Wendover, finding a childish pleasure in watching the unconscious gatekeeper who was dogging our footsteps and taking ludicrous precautions to keep⁠—as he thought⁠—out of sight. Only as we descended the long hill into the beautiful little town did I take them off, the better to enjoy the charm of the picturesque approach with its row of thatched cottages and the modest clock-turret, standing up against the background of the wooded heights that soared above Ellesborough. At the station we had the good fortune to find a train due and already signalled, but we delayed taking our tickets until our follower arrived, which he did, in evident haste, a couple of minutes later, being, no doubt, acquainted with the times of the trains. As soon as he appeared, Thorndyke sauntered to the booking-office wicket and gave him time to approach before demanding in clear, audible tones, two firsts to Marylebone. The gatekeeper followed, and thrusting his head and shoulders deep into the opening, as if he were about to crawl through, made his demand in a muffled undertone.</p>
			<p>‘We need not trouble ourselves about him any more,’ said Thorndyke, ‘until we get to London. Then we shall know whether he is or is not trying to shadow us.’</p>
			<p>When we had settled ourselves in an empty compartment and began to charge our pipes as the train moved off, I returned to the question of our tactics.</p>
			<p>‘What do you propose to do, Thorndyke, if this fellow tries to follow us home? Shall we let him run us to earth, or shall we lose him?’</p>
			<p>‘I see no reason why we should make a secret of who we are and where we live. That is apparently what Blake wants to know⁠—that is, if this man is really shadowing us.’</p>
			<p>‘But,’ I urged, ‘isn’t it generally wiser to withhold information until you know what use is going to be made of it?’</p>
			<p>‘As a rule, it is,’ he admitted. ‘But it may happen that the use made of information by one party may be highly illuminating to the other. We may assume that Blake wants to know who we are simply because he suffers from an obsession of suspicion and thinks that we were in his grounds for some unlawful purpose. But he may have some other object, and if he has, I should like to know what it is; and the best way to find out is to let him have our names and address.’</p>
			<p>To this I assented, though I was a little mystified. The man Blake was no concern of ours, and it did not seem to matter in the least what suspicions of us had got into his thick head. However Thorndyke probably knew his own business⁠—and meanwhile the presence of this sleuth-hound provided an element of comedy of which I was far from unappreciative, and which my sedate colleague enjoyed without disguise.</p>
			<p>When we alighted at Marylebone, we walked quickly to the barrier, but having passed through, we sauntered slowly to the main exit.</p>
			<p>‘Do you think Polton’s spectacles would be very conspicuous?’ I asked.</p>
			<p>My colleague smiled indulgently. ‘The new toy has caught on,’ said he, ‘and it would be undeniably useful at the present moment. No, put the spectacles on. The discs are hardly noticeable to a casual observer.’</p>
			<p>Accordingly I slipped the appliance on as we strolled out into the Marylebone Road and was able, almost immediately, to report progress.</p>
			<p>‘He is watching us from the exit. Which way are we going?’</p>
			<p>‘I think,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘as he is a country cousin, we will make things easy for him and give him a little exercise after the confinement of the train. The Euston Road route is less crowded than Oxford Street.’</p>
			<p>We turned eastward and started at an easy pace along the Marylebone Road and Euston Road, keeping on the less-frequented side of the street. I was a little self-conscious in regard to the spectacles, but apparently no one noticed them; and by their aid I was able to watch with astonishing ease our artless follower and to amuse myself by noting his conflicting anxieties to keep us in view and himself out of sight. We turned down Woburn Place, crossed Queen Square to Great Ormond Street and proceeding by Lamb’s-Conduit Street, Red Lion Street, Great Turnstile, Lincoln’s Inn, and Chancery Lane, crossed Fleet Street to Middle Temple Lane. Here we slowed down, lest the sleuth-hound should lose us, and as we were now in our own neighbourhood, I removed the spectacles and restored them to their owner.</p>
			<p>At the entrance to Pump Court we separated, Thorndyke proceeding at a leisurely pace towards Crown Office Row while I hurried through the court; and having halted in the Cloisters to make sure that the sleuth was not pursuing me, I darted through Fig-Tree Court and across King’s Bench Walk to our chambers, where I found Polton laying a sort of hybrid tea and supper.</p>
			<p>To our trusty assistant I rapidly communicated the state of affairs (including the triumphant success of the magic spectacles, at which his face became a positive labyrinth of ecstatic wrinkles); and having provided ourselves with field-glasses, we stationed ourselves at the laboratory window, from whence we had the gratification of watching Thorndyke emerge majestically from Crown Office Row, followed shortly by the man in the velveteen coat, whose efforts to make himself invisible brought Polton to the verge of apoplexy.</p>
			<p>‘Hadn’t I better follow him and see where he goes to, sir?’ the latter suggested.</p>
			<p>The suggestion was put to Thorndyke when he entered, but was rejected.</p>
			<p>‘I don’t think we want to know where he goes from here,’ said he. ‘But still, seeing that he has come so far, it might be kind of you, Polton, to go down and give him a chance of obtaining any information that he wants.’</p>
			<p>Polton needed no second bidding. Clapping on his hat, he set forth gleefully down the stairs. But in a minute or two he was back again, somewhat crestfallen.</p>
			<p>‘It’s no go, sir,’ he reported. ‘I found him copying the names on the door-post in the entry, and I think he must have got them all down, for when he saw me, he was off like a lamplighter.’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke chuckled. ‘And to think,’ said he, ‘that our friend, the squire, could have got all the information he wanted by the simple expedient of asking for our cards. Verily, suspicious folk give themselves a deal of unnecessary trouble.’</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
