<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="ch12" name="ch12"/>XII. — FROM THE JAWS OF DEATH</h2>
			<p class="first">On the following morning it seemed natural that my steps should stray in the direction of Jacob Street, not only that I might relieve my anxiety as to my friend whom I had left overnight in so distressed a state, but also to ascertain whether any services that I could render were at the moment in request. As to the former, my mind was completely set at rest as soon as I entered the studio (to which I was conducted by Mrs. Wingrave, who opened the wicket), for I found Miss Blake hard at work and looking as cheerful and interested as if poisoned sweets and brazen-haired Jezebels were things unheard of.</p>
			<p>I explained, half-apologetically, the purpose of my visit, and was preparing a strategic retreat when she interrupted me.</p>
			<p>‘Now, Mr. Anstey, I will not have these formalities. We aren’t strangers. You have been, and are, the best and kindest of friends to me and Percy, and we are not only grateful but we value your friendship very much indeed. As to Percy, he loves you.’</p>
			<p>‘Does he?’ said I, with an inward glow of satisfaction. ‘I am proud to know that. And Percy’s sister⁠—?’</p>
			<p>She coloured very prettily and smilingly avoided the pitfall. ‘Percy’s sister,’ she replied, ‘takes an indulgent view of her brother’s infatuation. But I am going to treat you as a friend. I am going on with my work, because it has to be done, even if I didn’t like doing it; but it would be very nice and companionable if you would sit down and smoke a pipe and talk to me, that is, of course, if you can spare the time.’</p>
			<p>‘If I could spare the time!’ Why, the whole Appeal Court, with the House of Lords thrown in, might have sat and twiddled their thumbs for all I cared. But, in fact, I had nothing to do at all.</p>
			<p>‘You are sure I shan’t hinder you?’ I said, feeling for my pipe.</p>
			<p>‘Perfectly,’ she answered. ‘I have done all the troublesome part, you see⁠—posing and draping the model,’ and she pointed with her pencil to a lay figure (it was an elaborate, ‘stuffed’ figure with real hair and a wax face and hands), dressed in the very height of fashion, which stood, posed in what Lewis Carroll would have called an ‘Anglo-Saxon attitude,’ simpering at us idiotically.</p>
			<p>‘That is a very magnificent costume,’ I remarked. ‘I suppose it is one of your own? Or do you keep a wardrobe for the models?’</p>
			<p>‘It isn’t costume at all,’ she replied with a laugh. ‘It is just dress material draped on and tacked or pinned in position. You will see if you go round to the other side.’</p>
			<p>I went round to the ‘off-side,’ and having thus discovered the fraud, asked: ‘Is this a figure for a subject picture?’</p>
			<p>She laughed softly. ‘Bless your innocent heart, Mr. Anstey, I don’t paint pictures. I draw fashion-plates. I have to earn a living, you know, and give Percy a start.’</p>
			<p>‘What a horrid waste of talent!’ I exclaimed. ‘But I had no idea that fashion-plate artists took all this trouble’; and I pointed to the smooth card on her easel which bore a masterly, though rather attenuated, nude figure⁠—in the Anglo-Saxon attitude⁠—lightly drawn in pencil, and looking almost like a silver point.</p>
			<p>‘Most of them don’t,’ she replied, ‘and perhaps it isn’t really necessary. But I like to make a finished pencil drawing, though it has all to be rubbed out when the pen work has been done over it.’</p>
			<p>‘And the preliminary nude figure,’ said I; ‘you do that from a model, I suppose?’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ she answered. ‘I can draw a nude figure well enough for this purpose out of my head. You see, I worked from the model for a long time at the Slade School, and I never threw away a drawing. I have them all bound in books, and I have copied them and drawn them from memory over and over again. In practice, one must be able to rough out a figure out of one’s head.’</p>
			<p>As she talked, her pencil travelled easily and lightly over the smooth fashion-plate board, gradually clothing the nude figure in transparent habiliments, and I sat smoking with infinite contentment and watching her. And a very dainty, picturesque figure she made in her long blue pinafore, with her red-gold hair and waxen skin, as she stood gracefully poised before her easel, hand on hip and the drawing arm flung out straight and swinging easily from the shoulder. I contrasted her lithe form, in which every curve was full of life and grace, with the absurd rigidity of the lay-figure, her simple, dignified garments with the fussy exuberance of the fashionable costume (though, to be sure, that costume was her own creation), and was moved to comments on the effigy that might have lacerated its feelings if it had had any.</p>
			<p>‘How long will this drawing take you?’ I asked presently.</p>
			<p>‘I shall have it done by this evening,’ she replied, ‘and tomorrow morning I shall take it to the office and deliver it to the Art editor.’</p>
			<p>‘Couldn’t I take it for you?’ said I.</p>
			<p>‘I am afraid not,’ she answered. ‘I must go myself to see that it is all right and to get instructions for the next drawings. Besides, why should you?’</p>
			<p>‘Didn’t we agree that you were to keep indoors out of harm’s way? Or at least not to go abroad without an escort? If you must take the drawing yourself, you had better let me come with you to see you safely there and back. Do you mind?’</p>
			<p>‘Of course I should like your company, Mr. Anstey,’ she replied, ‘but it seems such a tax on you.’</p>
			<p>‘I wish all taxes were as acceptable,’ said I. ‘But I understand that you agree; so, if you will fix a time, the escort will assemble at the gate and the bugles will sound “fall in” with military punctuality.’</p>
			<p>After a few more half-hearted protests she fixed the hour of half-past ten for the following morning, and I then took my leave, very well satisfied with the progress of this friendship that was becoming so dear to me, and even sensible of a dawning hope that a yet closer intimacy might some day become possible.</p>
			<p>Punctually at the appointed time the Hampstead tram set me down at the end of Jacob Street, when I proceeded to collect the convoy and make sail for Bedford Street, Covent Garden, which was the abiding-place of the Art editor to whom the drawing was consigned. But if the outward voyage was characterised by business-like directness, it was quite otherwise with the homeward; which was marked by so many circumnavigations and interrupted by so many ports of call⁠—including the National Gallery⁠—that it was well on in the afternoon when the convoy shortened sail at sixty-three Jacob Street, and it became necessary for the escort to put into port and take in stores in the form of tea and biscuits. And even then, so satisfactory had the voyage turned out that (to pursue the metaphor to a finish) the charter-party was renewed and further voyages projected.</p>
			<p>Expeditions abroad, however, could only be occasional, and even then on a plausible business pretext, for my fair friend was a steady worker and spent long days at her easel and drawing-desk; nor was I entirely without occupation, though Thorndyke made but the smallest demands upon my vacation leisure. In effect, not a day passed without a visit to Jacob Street, and whether my time was spent placidly watching the growth of a new drawing, in executing shopping commissions, or in escort duties, it was all equally pleasant to me, and day by day more firmly established my position as the indispensable friend of the little household.</p>
			<p>Affairs had been on this footing for about a week when early on a certain afternoon I set forth from the Temple for my daily call, but with a more definite purpose than usual, for I bore with me the locket, in which Polton had fixed a new glass. I rang the studio bell with the customary pleasurable anticipation of the warm and evidently sincere welcome, and listened complacently to Mrs. Wingrave’s footsteps as she came along the paved passage, and as the wicket opened I prepared to step jauntily through. But the first words that the worthy lady spoke scattered in an instant all my pleasant thoughts and filled me with alarm.</p>
			<p>‘Miss Blake has just gone out,’ she said. ‘A most sad thing has happened. Poor Master Percy has had an accident. He has broken his leg.’</p>
			<p>‘Where did this happen, and when?’ I asked.</p>
			<p>‘It must have happened about an hour ago,’ she replied. ‘I don’t know where, but they have taken him into a house near Chalk Farm.’</p>
			<p>‘Who brought the news?’ I demanded breathlessly; for, seeing that Percy would be at school at the time mentioned, the story was, on the face of it, highly suspicious.</p>
			<p>‘It was a lady who brought the message,’ said Mrs. Wingrave. ‘She wouldn’t come in, but she handed me a note, written in pencil and marked “urgent”. Miss Blake showed it to me. It didn’t give any particulars beyond what I have told you, and the address of the house.’</p>
			<p>‘What was the lady like?’ I asked.</p>
			<p>‘Well,’ Mrs. Wingrave replied, ‘I call her a lady, but she was really rather a common-looking woman; painted and powdered and very vulgarly dressed.’</p>
			<p>‘Did you notice her hair?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes; you couldn’t help noticing it. Brassy-looking, golden stuff, frizzed out like a mop⁠—and her eyebrows were as black as mine are.’</p>
			<p>‘Do you know where the note is?’ I asked.</p>
			<p>‘I expect Miss Blake took it with her, but she may have left it in the studio. Shall we go and see?’</p>
			<p>We hurried together across the yard and into the studio, where for a minute or so we searched the tables and the unfastened bureau. But there was no sign of the note.</p>
			<p>‘She must have taken it with her,’ said Mrs. Wingrave. ‘But I think I can give you the address, if that is what you want. You don’t think there’s anything wrong, do you?’</p>
			<p>‘I am extremely uneasy, Mrs. Wingrave,’ said I, producing my notebook and a pencil, ‘and I shall go straight to the house, if I can find it. What is the address? For Heaven’s sake don’t give me a wrong one!’</p>
			<p>‘I remember it quite clearly,’ she replied, ‘and I think I know the place. It is number twenty-nine Scoresby Terrace, a corner house; and the terrace turns out of Sackett’s Road on the left side going up from here.’</p>
			<p>I wrote this down in my note-book and then asked: ‘How long has Miss Blake been gone?’</p>
			<p>‘She started less than ten minutes before you came,’ was the reply. ‘If you hurry you may possibly over-take her.’</p>
			<p>We came out of the studio, and as we crossed the yard she gave me very full and clear directions as to how to find the place, some of which I jotted down. Passing a marble tombstone on which her husband had been working, I noticed a number of his tools lying on a sack, and among them a long chisel, almost like a small crowbar. ‘May I borrow this, Mrs. Wingrave?’ I said, picking it up. ‘Certainly, if you want to,’ she replied with a look of surprise.</p>
			<p>‘Thank you,’ I said, slipping it up my sleeve. ‘I may have to force a door, you know,’ and with this I let myself out at the wicket and strode away swiftly up the street.</p>
			<p>I am habitually a rapid walker, and now I covered the ground at a pace that made other pedestrians stare. For Winifred, I felt sure, would have flown to her brother on the wings of terror, and hurry as I might, I should be hard put to it to overtake her. But her terror could have been nothing compared with mine. As I raced along the shabby streets, swinging the chisel openly in my hand⁠—for its presence in my sleeve was a sensible hindrance⁠—the sinister possibilities⁠—nay, probabilities⁠—that, unsought, suggested themselves one after another, kept me in a state of sickening dread. Supposing I failed to find the place after all! It was quite possible, for the neighbourhood was strange and rather intricate. Or suppose I should lose time in searching for the house and arrive at last, only to find⁠—Here I set my teeth and fairly broke into a run, regardless of the inquisitive stares of idlers at doors and street corners. But, for all my terror and horrible forebodings, I kept my wits and held my attention firmly to Mrs. Wingrave’s directions, and I derived a faint encouragement from the fact that I had never lost touch of the landmarks and that every hurried step was bringing me nearer to my goal. At length, want of breath compelled me to drop into a walk, but a couple of minutes later, with a gasp of relief, I reached the corner of Sackett’s Road; and even as I swung round into the long, straight, dreary street, I caught a glimpse of a woman, at the far end, hurrying forward in the same direction. It was only a momentary glimpse, for in the instant when I saw her she turned swiftly into a by-street to the left. But brief as was the vision, and far away as she was, no doubt was possible to me. It was Winifred.</p>
			<p>I drew a deep breath. Surely I should be in time. And perhaps my fears might be groundless after all. The plot might be but the creation of my own uneasy suspicion. At any rate, I was nearly there, and it was hardly possible that in a few short minutes anything could happen⁠—but here all my terrors came crowding on me again, and, breathless as I was, I again broke into a run.</p>
			<p>As I reached the corner of Scoresby Terrace and looked at the corner house, my heart seemed to stand still. A single glance showed that it was an empty house, and the horrible desolation of its aspect was made more dreadful by the silence and the total absence of any sign of life. I flew across the road, and barely glancing at the number-twenty-nine-raced up the garden path and tugged furiously at the bell.</p>
			<p>Instantly the hollow shell reverberated with a hideous jangling that sounded more ominous and dreadful from the vacancy that the discordant echoes bespoke. But it slowly died away and was succeeded by no answering sound. A deadly silence enveloped the ill-omened place. Not a creak upon the stair, not a sign of life or movement could I detect, though I held my breath to listen. Yet this was the house, and she was in it⁠—and that other! Again I wrenched at the bell, and again the horrible jangling filled the place with echoes, like some infernal peal rung by a company of ghouls. And still there was no answer.</p>
			<p>In a frenzy of terror I rushed down the side passage, and bursting open the flimsy gate, ran into the back garden and tried the back door. But it was locked and bolted. Then I darted to the back parlour window, and springing on the sill, shattered, with a stroke of the chisel, the pane above the catch. Passing my hand in through the hole, I drew back the catch and slid up the lower sash. I had noticed that the wooden shutters were not quite closed, but at the moment that I slid up the window-sash, the shutters closed and I heard the cross-bar snap into its socket.</p>
			<p>For a moment I had a thought of running round to the front and breaking in the street door. But only for a moment. Rescue, not capture, was my purpose. A glance at the flimsy, decrepit shutters showed me the way in. Thrusting the edge of the long, powerful chisel into the crack close to the lower hinge, I gave a violent wrench, and forthwith the hinge came away from the jamb, the screws drawing easily from the rotten woodwork. Another thrust and another wrench at the upper hinge brought that away too; at a push the whole shutter swung inward and I sprang down into the room. And at that moment I heard the street door shut.</p>
			<p>I ran across the room to the door. Of course it was locked and the key was outside. But I was not a criminal lawyer for nothing. In a moment I had the chisel driven in beside the lock, and pressing on the long handle, drove the door back on its hinges, when the lock-bolt and latch disengaged from the striking-plate and the door came open at once.</p>
			<p>I ran out into the hall, unlocked the front room, and looked in, but it was empty. Then I flew up the stairs and was about to unlock the door of the first room that I came to, when I became aware of a soft, shuffling sound proceeding apparently from the next room. Instantly I ran to that door, and turning the key, flung it open.</p>
			<p>The sight that met my eyes as I darted into the room was but the vision of a moment, but in that moment it imprinted itself upon my memory for ever. Even now, as I write, it rises before me, vivid and horrible, with such dreadful remembrance that my hand falters as it guides the pen. In a corner near the wall she lay⁠—my sweet, gracious Winifred-lay huddled, writhing feebly and fumbling with her hands at her throat. Her face was of the colour of slate, her lips black, her eyes wide and protruding.</p>
			<p>It was, I say, but the vision of a moment, a frightful, unforgettable moment. The next, I was on my knees beside her, my open knife was in my hand, its keen edge eating through the knot at the back of her neck that secured the band that was strangling her. A moment of agonised impatience and then the knot was divided and the band hastily unwound⁠—it was a narrow silken scarf⁠—revealing a livid groove in the plump neck.</p>
			<p>As I took away the scarf she drew a deep, gasping breath with a hoarse, distressful sound like the breathing of a croup-stricken child. Again and again it was repeated, growing quicker and more irregular, and with each succeeding gasp the horrible purple of face and lips faded away, leaving a pallor as of marble; the dreadfully protruding eyes sank back until they looked almost normal, though wild and frightened.</p>
			<p>I watched these changes with a sense of utter helplessness, though not without relief⁠—for they were clearly changes for the better. But I longed to help her, to do something active to advance her recovery. If only I had had Thorndyke’s knowledge I might have been of some use. He would have known what to do. But perhaps there was nothing to be done but wait for her natural recovery. At any rate, that was all that I could do. And so I remained kneeling by her side with her head resting on my arm, holding her hand, and looking with infinite pity and affection into the frightened, trustful eyes that sought my own with such pathetic appeal.</p>
			<p>Presently, as her breathing grew easier, the gasps began to be mingled with sobs; and then, suddenly, she burst into tears and wept passionately, almost hysterically, with her face buried against my shoulder. I was profoundly moved, indeed I was almost ready to weep myself, so intense was the revulsion now that the danger was past. In the tumult of my emotions I forgot everything but that she was saved, and that I loved her. As I sought to comfort her, to coax away her terrors, to soothe and reassure her, I cannot tell what words of tenderness I murmured into her ear, by what endearing names I addressed her. Stirred as I was to the very depths of my soul, I was aware of nothing but the great realities. In the stress of terror but now barely past and the joy and relief of the hardly hoped for recovery, the world of everyday was forgotten. All I knew was that she was here, safe in my arms, and that she was all in all to me.</p>
			<p>By degrees her emotion expended its force and she grew calmer. Presently she sat up, and having wiped her eyes, looked nervously about the empty room.</p>
			<p>‘Let us go away from this dreadful place,’ she said in a low, frightened voice, laying her hand entreatingly on my arm.</p>
			<p>‘We will,’ said I, ‘if you are well enough yet to walk. Let us see.’</p>
			<p>I stood up and lifted her to her feet, but she was very unsteady and weak. I doubt if she could have stood without support, for I could feel her trembling as she leaned on me heavily. Still, with my help, she tottered to the door and crossed the landing, and then, very slowly, we descended the stairs. At the open door of the room which I had entered, we paused to adjust her hat and remove any traces of the struggle before we should emerge into the street. I was still holding the silken scarf, and now put it into my pocket to free my hands that I might assist her in settling her hat and the crumpled collar of her dress. As I looked her over to see that all was in order, I noticed three or four conspicuous golden hairs sticking to her right sleeve. I picked them off and was in the act of dropping them when it occurred to me that Thorndyke might be able to extract some information from them, whereupon I brought out my pocket-book and slipped them between the leaves.</p>
			<p>‘That is how I got into the house,’ I said, pointing to the shattered window and the hanging shutter.</p>
			<p>She peered fearfully into the empty room and said: ‘I heard the crash of the glass. It was that which saved me, I think, for that brute heard it too, and rushed away downstairs instantly. How did you break open the shutter?’</p>
			<p>‘I did it with a chisel of Mr. Wingrave’s-and that reminds me that I have left the chisel upstairs. I must take it back to him.’</p>
			<p>I bounded up the stairs, and running into the room, snatched up the chisel from the floor and ran out again. As I turned the corner of the staircase, I met her beginning to ascend the stair, clinging to the handrail and sobbing hysterically. I cursed myself for having left her, even for a few moments, and putting my arm around her, led her back into the hall.</p>
			<p>‘Oh, pray forgive me!’ she sobbed. ‘I am all unstrung. I couldn’t bear to be alone.’</p>
			<p>‘Of course you couldn’t,’ said I, drawing her head to my shoulder and stroking her pale cheek. ‘I oughtn’t to have left you. But try, Winnie dear, to realise that it is now over and gone. And let us get out of this house.’</p>
			<p>She wiped her eyes again, and as her sobs died away into an occasional moan, I opened the street door. The sight of the open street and the sunlight seemed to calm her at once. She put away her handkerchief, and clinging to my arm, walked slowly and a little unsteadily by my side down the garden path and out at the gate.</p>
			<p>‘I wonder where we can get a cab,’ said I.</p>
			<p>‘There is a station not very far away, I believe,’ said she. ‘Perhaps some one can direct us.’</p>
			<p>We walked slowly down Sackett’s Road, looking about that curiously deserted thoroughfare for some likely person from whom to make inquiries, when I saw a taxi-cab draw up at a house and discharge its passengers. I managed to attract the notice of the driver, and a minute later we were seated in the vehicle travelling swiftly homeward.</p>
			<p>During the short journey hardly a word was exchanged. She was quite composed now, but she was still deathly pale and lay back in her seat with an air of intense fatigue and exhaustion. When we reached the studio I helped her out of the cab, and having dismissed it, led her to the gate and rang the bell.</p>
			<p>Instantly I heard hurried steps in the passage, the wicket was flung open, and Mrs. Wingrave looked out eagerly. When she saw us, she burst into tears.</p>
			<p>‘Thank God!’ she exclaimed. ‘I’ve been in an agony of suspense. Directly Percy came home, I knew that Mr. Anstey must be right⁠—that the message about him was a trap of some sort. What has happened?’</p>
			<p>‘I’ll tell you later, Mrs. Wingrave,’ Winifred replied. ‘I don’t want to talk about it now. Is Percy at home?’</p>
			<p>‘No. The two Wallingford boys were with him. He has gone home to tea with them. I thought it best to say nothing, and let him go. They live quite near here.’</p>
			<p>‘I am glad you did,’ said Winifred, as we crossed the yard-where I replaced the invaluable chisel. ‘Perhaps we needn’t tell him anything about this.’</p>
			<p>‘It might be better not to,’ said Mrs. Wingrave. ‘And now go and sit down quietly in the studio and I will bring you some tea. You both look as if you wanted some rest and refreshment.’ She bustled away towards her own residence and Winifred and I entered the studio.</p>
			<p>As I held the curtain aside to let her pass, my companion halted and looked round the great, bare hall with an air of deep reflection⁠—almost of curiosity. ‘I never thought to look upon this place again,’ she said gravely; ‘and I never should but for you. My life is your gift, Mr. Anstey.’</p>
			<p>‘It is a very precious life to me, Winifred,’ said I. And then I added: ‘I can’t call you Miss Blake.’</p>
			<p>‘I am glad of that,’ she said, looking at me with a smile. ‘It would sound very cool and formal now when you have held my life in your hands, and my heart is bursting with gratitude to you.’ She laid her hand on my arm for a moment, and then, as if afraid of saying too much, returned abruptly to the subject of her brother. ‘It is fortunate Percy was not at home. I don’t think we need tell him, at least not just now. Do you think so?’</p>
			<p>‘I don’t see any necessity,’ I replied. ‘He knows the general position and the precautions that have to be taken. Perhaps he can be told later. And now you must just sit on the settee and rest quietly, for you are as pale as a ghost still. I wonder you have not collapsed altogether.’</p>
			<p>In a few minutes Mrs. Wingrave brought in the tea and placed it on a table by Winifred’s settee. I drew up a chair and performed the presidential functions in respect of the teapot, and under the influence of the homely ceremony and the reviving stimulant my patient began to recover something like her normal appearance and manner. I kept up a flow of more or less commonplace talk, avoiding, for the present, any reference to the terrible events of the afternoon, the details of which I decided to elucidate later when the effect of the shock had passed off.</p>
			<p>The postponement, however, was shorter than I had intended, for when we had finished tea and I had carried the tray across the yard and restored it to Mrs. Wingrave, Winifred opened the subject herself.</p>
			<p>‘You haven’t asked me how this thing happened,’ she said, as I re-entered the studio and sat down beside her in the vacant place on the settee.</p>
			<p>‘No. I thought you wouldn’t want to talk about it just now.’</p>
			<p>‘I don’t want to talk about it to Mrs. Wingrave,’ said she. ‘But you are my deliverer. I don’t mind telling you⁠—besides you ought to know. And I want to know, too, by what extraordinary chance you came to be in that place at that critical moment. When I saw you come into the room, it seemed as if a miracle had happened.’</p>
			<p>‘There was nothing very miraculous about it,’ said I, ‘except that I happened to arrive at the studio a little earlier than usual.’ And here I gave her an account of my arrival and my interview with Mrs. Wingrave and my efforts to overtake her.</p>
			<p>‘It was very clever of Mrs. Wingrave to remember the address so clearly,’ said Winifred.</p>
			<p>‘It is a mercy that she did,’ said I. ‘If she had not⁠—but there, we won’t think of that. What happened when you got to the house?’</p>
			<p>‘I rang the bell and a woman opened the door. I hardly saw her until I had entered the hall and she had shut the door, and then⁠—you know how dark the hall was⁠—I couldn’t see her very distinctly. But I noticed that she was a good deal powdered and that she had bright, unreal-looking golden hair, though that didn’t show much as she had a handkerchief tied over her head and under her chin. And I also noticed that her face seemed in some way familiar to me.</p>
			<p>‘As soon as she had shut the door the woman said in a rather peculiar voice: “You must excuse the state of the house, we haven’t properly moved in yet. The little man is with the nurse on the first floor, the second room you come to. Will you go up?”</p>
			<p>‘I ran up the stairs and she followed close behind me. When I came to the second room, I asked: “Is this the one?” and when she answered “Yes,” I opened the door and stepped in. Then, of course, I saw it was an empty room, and instantly I suspected that it was a trap. But at that moment the woman threw the scarf over my head and pulled it tight. I turned round quickly, but she dodged behind me and pulled me into the room, and there we struggled and kept turning round and round for hours, as it seemed to me, she trying to get behind me to tie the scarf, and I struggling to keep her in front of me. She still held both ends of the scarf, and though she was not able to pull it quite tight, it was tight enough to make my breathing difficult and to prevent me from calling out. At last I managed to turn quickly and seize her by the hair and the handkerchief that was tied over her head. But the handkerchief came away in my hand and the hair with it. It was a wig. And then, to my horror, I saw that this was not a woman at all. It was a man! The man who stabbed me that night at Hampstead! I recognised him instantly, and the shock was so awful that I nearly fainted. For a moment I felt perfectly helpless, and in that moment he got behind me and tied the scarf and pulled it tight.</p>
			<p>‘Then there came a tremendous pealing of the bell. The man started violently, and I could feel his hands trembling as he tried to finish tying the knot while I struggled to get hold of his wrists. But, of course, I could not struggle long, for the scarf was so tight that it almost completely stopped my breathing, and the horror of the thing took away all my strength. When the bell rang the second time, he broke into a torrent of curses mixed with a curious sort of whimpering, and flung me violently on the floor. He was just finishing the knot when I heard a crash of glass down below, and at that he sprang to his feet, snatched up the wig and handkerchief, and flew down the stairs.</p>
			<p>‘After this there seemed a long, long interval. Of course it was only a matter of seconds, I suppose, but it was agonising⁠—that horrible feeling of suffocation. At last I heard a bursting sound down below. Then the street door shut, and then⁠—just as I seemed to be losing consciousness⁠—you came into the room, and I knew that I was saved.’ She paused, and then, laying her hand on mine, she continued: ‘I haven’t thanked you for saving me from that horrible death. I can’t. No words are enough. Any talk of gratitude would be mere anticlimax.’</p>
			<p>There is no question of gratitude, Winnie,’ said I. ‘Your life is more to me than my own, so there is no virtue in my cherishing it. But I needn’t tell you that, for I suspect that my secret has slipped out unawares already.’</p>
			<p>‘Your secret?’ she repeated.</p>
			<p>‘That I love you, Winnie dearest. You must know it by now. I suppose I ought not to speak of it just at this time. And yet⁠—well, perhaps I might ask you if you would take time to consider whether we might not, some day, be more to one another than we are now.’</p>
			<p>She looked down gravely though a little shyly, but she answered without hesitation: ‘I don’t need to take time to consider. I can tell you at once that I am proud to be loved by such a man as you. And it is not a case of gratitude. I should have said the same if you had asked me yesterday⁠—or even longer ago than that.’</p>
			<p>‘Thank you for telling me that, Winnie,’ said I. ‘It would have been an unworthy thing if I had seemed to presume on any small service⁠—’</p>
			<p>‘It would have been an absurd thing to have any such idea, Mr. Anstey.’</p>
			<p>‘Mr. Anstey?’ I repeated. ‘May I humbly mention that I also have a Christian name?’</p>
			<p>‘I always suspected that you had,’ she retorted with a smile, ‘and I must confess to having speculated as to what it might be.’</p>
			<p>‘It takes the prosaic form of Robert, commonly perverted by my own family to Robin.’</p>
			<p>‘And a very pretty name, too,’ said she. ‘But you are a foolish Robin to speak in that way about yourself. The mistake you are making,’ she continued, holding up an admonitory forefinger, ‘is that you don’t realise what an exceedingly nice person you are. But we realise it. Mrs. Wingrave is quite fond of you; Percy loves you; and as for Percy’s sister, well, she lost her heart longer ago than she is prepared to admit. So let us hear no more ridiculous self-deprecations.’</p>
			<p>‘There shall be no more, sweetheart,’ said I. ‘You have taken away the occasion and the excuse. A man who has won the heart of the sweetest and loveliest girl in the whole world would be a fool to undervalue himself. But it is a wonderful thing, Winnie. I can hardly believe in my good fortune. When I saw you that night at Hampstead, I thought you were the most beautiful girl I had ever seen. And now I know I was right. But how little did I dream that that lovely girl would one day be my own!’</p>
			<p>‘I say again that you are a foolish Robin,’ said she, resting her cheek against my shoulder. ‘You think your goose is a swan. But go on thinking it, and she will be as near a swan as she can manage, or failing that, a very faithful, affectionate goose.’</p>
			<p>She looked up at me with a smile, half-shy but wholly endearing, and noting how her marble-white cheeks had grown pink and rosy, I kissed her; whereupon they grew pinker still.</p>
			<p>It was all for our good that Percy lingered with his friends and left us to the undisturbed possession of our new happiness. For me the golden minutes supped away unnumbered⁠—sullenly and relentlessly checked, however, by my unconsulted watch⁠—as we sat, side by side and hand clasped in hand. We talked little; not that we were, as Rosalind would say, ‘Gravelled for lack of matter’ (and even if we had been, Rosalind’s admirable expedient was always available). But perfect companionship is independent of mere verbal converse. There is no need for speech when two hearts are singing in unison.</p>
			<p>At last there came the expected peal of the bell. I might, I suppose, have gone out to open the wicket, but, in fact, I left that office to Mrs. Wingrave.</p>
			<p>‘I don’t think Percy will notice anything unusual,’ said I. ‘You look perfectly recovered now.’</p>
			<p>‘I suppose I do,’ she answered with a smile. ‘There have been restoratives, you see.’</p>
			<p>‘So there have,’ I agreed, and ex abundantia cautelae, as we lawyers say, I added a sort of restorative codicil even as the quick footsteps pattered across the yard.</p>
			<p>Whether Percy observed anything unusual I cannot say with certainty. He was a born diplomatist and a very model of discretion. But I have a strong suspicion that he detected some new note in the harmony of our little society. Particularly when I addressed his sister as Winnie did he seem to cock an attentive ear; and when she addressed me as Robin he cocked both ears. But he made no sign. He was a jewel of a boy. No lover could have asked for anything more perfect in the way of a prospective brother-in-law.</p>
			<p>But my suspicion of that juvenile diplomat was confirmed⁠—and my admiration of his judgment reached a climax⁠—when the time arrived for me to go, and Winifred rose to accompany me to the gate. This had always been Percy’s office. But now he shook hands with me without turning a hair and without even a glance at the studio door. It was a marvellous instance of precocious intelligence.</p>
			<p>We had left the studio and were just crossing the yard when suddenly I bethought me of the locket which Thorndyke had entrusted to me for delivery, and which I had, up to this moment, completely forgotten.</p>
			<p>‘Here is another narrow escape,’ said I. ‘The special errand which, to the uninitiated, appeared to be the occasion of my visit here today, has never been discharged. I was to give you your locket, which the ingenious Polton has made as good as new, and had forgotten all about it. However, it is not too late,’ and here I took the little bauble from my pocket and handed it to her.</p>
			<p>‘I am glad it came today, of all days,’ she said as she took it from me. ‘Now I can wear it as a sort of memento. If we had only known, Robin, we could have got Mr. Polton to engrave the date on the back.’</p>
			<p>‘He can do that later,’ said I. ‘It is engraved on my heart already. I can never forget a single moment of this day. And what a wonderful day it has been! What a day of wild extremes! Within a few hours I have suffered the most intense misery and dread that I have ever experienced, and been blessed with the greatest happiness that I have ever known. And as to you, my poor darling⁠—’</p>
			<p>‘Not a poor darling at all,’ she interrupted, ‘but a very rich and proud and happy one. A day of storm and sunshine it has indeed been, but the storm came first, and “in the evening there was light.” And after all, Robin dear, you can’t have a rainbow without rain.’</p>
			<p>By this tune we had reached the gate; and when I had taken her in my arms and kissed her, I opened the wicket and passed out. As it closed behind me I looked up and down the dreary street, but it was dreary to me no longer. I don’t know who Jacob was⁠—I mean this particular Jacob⁠—but as I stopped to look back fondly at the factory-like gate, I felt that I was in some sort under an obligation to him as the (presumptive) creator of the sacred thoroughfare.</p>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
