<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="ch3" name="ch3"/>III. — THORNDYKE TAKES UP THE INQUIRY</h2>
			<p class="first">The outer door of the house was shut, although the lower rooms were all lighted up, but at the first sound of the bell it was opened by a uniformed constable who regarded us stolidly and inquired as to our business. Before there was time to answer, however, a man whom I at once recognised as Inspector Badger of the Criminal Investigation Department came out into the hall and asked sharply: ‘Who is that, Martin?’</p>
			<p>‘It is Sir Lawrence Drayton, Dr. Thorndyke, and Mr. Anstey,’ I replied; and as the constable backed out of the way we all entered.</p>
			<p>‘This is a terrible catastrophe, Sir Lawrence,’ said Badger ‘Dreadful, dreadful. If sincere sympathy would be any consolation⁠—’</p>
			<p>‘It wouldn’t,’ interrupted Drayton, ‘though I thank you all the same. The only thing that would console me⁠—and that little enough⁠—would be the sight of the ruffian who did it dangling at the end of a rope. The local officer told you, I suppose, that I was asking Dr. Thorndyke to lend his valuable aid in investigating the crime?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes, Sir Lawrence,’ replied Badger, ‘but I don’t know that I am in a position to authorise any unofficial⁠—’</p>
			<p>‘Tut, tut, man!’ Drayton broke in impatiently, ‘I am not asking you to authorise anything. I am the murdered man’s sole executor and his only brother. In the one capacity his entire estate is vested in me until it has been disposed of in accordance with the will; in the other capacity, the duty devolves on me of seeing that his murderer is brought to account. I give you every liberty and facility to examine these premises, but I am not going to surrender possession of them. Has any discovery been made?’</p>
			<p>‘No, sir.’ Badger replied a little sulkily. ‘We have only been here a few minutes. I was taking some particulars from the housekeeper.’</p>
			<p>‘Possibly I can give you some information while Dr. Thorndyke is making his inspection of my poor brother’s body,’ said Drayton. ‘When he has finished and the body has been laid decently in his bedroom, I will come with you to the museum and we will see if anything is missing.’</p>
			<p>Badger assented, with evident unwillingness, to this arrangement. He and Drayton entered the drawing-room, from which the inspector had just come, while I conducted Thorndyke to the museum.</p>
			<p>The room was just as I had seen it last, excepting that the open drawer had been closed. The stark, rigid figure still lay on the floor, the set, white face still stared with stern fixity at the ceiling. As I looked, the events of the interval faded from my mind and all the horror of the sudden tragedy came back.</p>
			<p>Just inside the door Thorndyke halted and slowly ran his eye round the room, taking in its arrangement, and no doubt fixing it in his memory. Presently he stepped over to where the body lay, and stood a while looking down on the dead man. Then he stopped and closely examined a spot on the right breast.</p>
			<p>‘Isn’t there more bleeding than is usual in the case of a bullet-wound?’ I asked.</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ he replied, ‘but that blood hasn’t come from the wound in front. There must be another at the back, possibly a wound of exit. ‘As he spoke, he stood up and again looked searchingly round the room, more especially at the side in which the door opened. Suddenly his glance became fixed and he strode quickly across to a cabinet that stood beside the door; and as I followed him, I perceived a ragged hole in the front of one of the drawers.</p>
			<p>‘Do you mean, Thorndyke,’ I exclaimed, ‘that the bullet passed right through him?’</p>
			<p>That is what it looks like,’ he replied. ‘But we shall be able to judge better when we get the drawer open⁠—which we can’t do until Badger comes. But there is one thing that we had better do at once.’ Stepping over to the table on which he had placed the research-case, he opened the latter, and taking from it a stick of blackboard chalk, went back to the body. ‘We must assume,’ said he, ‘that he fell where he was standing when he was struck, and if that is so he would have been standing here.’ He marked on the carpet two-rough outlines to indicate the position of the feet when the murdered man fell, and having put the chalk back in the case, continued: ‘The next thing is to verify the existence of the wound at the back. Will you help me to turn him over?’</p>
			<p>We turned the body gently on to its right side, and immediately there came into view a large, blood-stained patch under the left shoulder, and at the centre of it a ragged burst in the fabric of the coat.</p>
			<p>‘That will do,’ said Thorndyke. ‘It is an unmistakable exit wound. The bullet probably missed the ribs both in entering and emerging, and passed through the heart or the great vessels. The appearances suggest almost instantaneous death. The face is set, the eyes wide open, and both the hands tightly clenched in a cadaveric spasm. And the right hand seems to be grasping something, but we had better leave that until Badger has seen it.’</p>
			<p>At this moment footsteps became audible coming along the corridor, and Badger entered the room accompanied by the local inspector. The two officers looked inquiringly at Thorndyke, who proceeded at once to give them a brief statement of the facts that he had observed.</p>
			<p>‘There can’t be much doubt,’ said Badger when he had examined the hole in the drawer front, ‘that this was made by a spent bullet. But we may as well settle the question now. We shall want the keys in any case.’</p>
			<p>He passed his hand over the dead man’s clothes, and having located the pocket which contained the keys, drew out a good-sized bunch, with which he went over to the cabinet. A few trials with likely-looking keys resulted in the discovery of the right one, and when this had been turned and the hinged batten swung back, all the drawers of the cabinet were released. The inspector pulled out the one with the damaged front and looked in inquisitively. Its contents consisted principally of latten and pewter spoons, now evidently disarranged and mingled with a litter of splinters of wood; and in the bowl of a spoon near the back of the drawer lay a distorted bullet, which Badger picked up and examined critically.</p>
			<p>‘Browning automatic, I should say,’ was his comment, ‘and if so we ought to find the cartridge case somewhere on the floor. We must look for it presently, but we’d better get the body moved first, if you have finished your inspection, Doctor.’</p>
			<p>‘There is something grasped in the right hand,’ said Thorndyke. ‘It looks like a wisp of hair. Perhaps we had better look at that before the body is moved, in case it should fall out.’</p>
			<p>We returned to the body, and the two officers stooped and watched eagerly as Thorndyke, with some difficulty, opened the rigid hand sufficiently to draw from it a small tuft of hair.</p>
			<p>‘The spasm is very marked,’ he observed as he scrutinised the hair and felt in his pocket for a lens; and when, with the aid of the latter, he had made a further examination, he continued: ‘The state of the root-bulbs shows that the hair was actually plucked out⁠—which, of course, is what we should expect.’</p>
			<p>‘Can you form any opinion as to what sort of man he was?’ Badger asked.</p>
			<p>‘No,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘excepting that he was not a recently released convict. But the appearance of the hair agrees with Miss Blake’s description of the man who stabbed her. I understand that she described him as a having rather short but bushy hair. This hair is rather short, though we can’t say whether it was bushy or not. Perhaps more complete examination of it may tell us something further.’</p>
			<p>‘Possibly,’ Badger agreed. ‘I will have it thoroughly examined, and get a report on it. Shall I take charge of it?’ he added, holding out his hand.</p>
			<p>‘Yes, you had better,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘but I will take a small sample for further examination, if you don’t mind.’</p>
			<p>‘There is no need for that,’ protested Badger. ‘You can always have access to what we’ve got if you want to refer to it.’</p>
			<p>‘I know,’ said Thorndyke, ‘and it is very good of you to offer. Still this will save time and trouble.’ And without more ado he separated a third of the tuft and handed the remainder to the inspector, who wrapped it in a sheet of note-paper that he had taken from his pocket and sourly watched Thorndyke bestow his portion in a seed-envelope from his pocket-book, and after writing on it a brief description, return it to the latter receptacle.</p>
			<p>‘You were saying,’ said Badger, ‘that this hair agrees with Miss Blake’s description. But it was suggested that it was the other man who really committed the murder. Isn’t that rather a contradiction?’</p>
			<p>‘I don’t think so,’ replied Thorndyke. ‘The probabilities seem to me to point to the other man as the murderer.’</p>
			<p>‘But how can that be?’ objected Badger. ‘You say that this hair agrees with Miss Blake’s description of the man. But this hair is obviously the hair of the murderer. And that man was left-handed and the wound is on the right breast, suggesting that the murderer held his pistol in his left hand.’</p>
			<p>‘Not at all,’ said Thorndyke. ‘I submit that this hair is obviously not the hair of the murderer. Look at those chalk marks that I have made on the floor. They mark the spot on which the deceased was standing when the bullet struck him. Now go back to the cabinet and look at the chalk marks and see what is in a direct line with them.’</p>
			<p>The inspector did so. ‘I see,’ said he. ‘You mean the window.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes, it was open, since the robber evidently came in by it, and the sill is barely five feet from the ground. I suggest⁠—but merely as a probability, since the bullet may have been deflected⁠—that the other man was keeping guard outside, and that when he heard a noise from this room he looked in through the window and saw his confederate on the point of being captured by the deceased, that he then fired, and when he saw deceased fall, he made his escape. That would account for the man who was seen by Miss Blake making his appearance after the other man had gone. He may have had to extricate himself from the dead man’s grasp, and then he had to climb out of the window. But the position of the empty cartridge-case⁠—if we find it⁠—will settle the question. If the pistol was fired into the room through the window, the cartridge-case will be on the ground outside.’</p>
			<p>He opened his research-case, and taking from it the electric lamp, walked slowly to the window, throwing the bright light on the floor as he went. The two officers followed, and all scrutinised the floor closely, but in vain. Then Thorndyke leaned out of the window and threw the light of his lamp on the ground outside, moving the bright beam slowly to and fro while the inspector craned forward eagerly. Suddenly Badger uttered an exclamation.</p>
			<p>‘There it is, Doctor! Don’t move the light. Keep it there while I go out and pick the case up.’</p>
			<p>‘One moment, Badger,’ said Thorndyke. ‘We mustn’t be impetuous. There are some other things out there more important than the cartridge-case. I can see two distinct sets of footprints, and it is above all things necessary that they should not be confused by being trodden into. Let us get the body moved first. Then we can take some mats out and examine the footprints systematically and recover the cartridge-case at the same time. If we are careful we can leave the ground in such a condition that it will be possible to go over it again by daylight.’</p>
			<p>The wisdom of this suggestion was obvious, and the inspector proceeded at once to act on it. The sergeant and the constable were sent for, and by them the body of the murdered man was carried, under the inspector’s supervision, to the bedroom above. Then a couple of large mats were procured from Mrs. Benham and we all issued from the front door into the garden. Here, however, a halt was called, and at Thorndyke’s suggestion, the party was separated into two, he and Badger to explore the grounds inside the fence, while the local inspector and the others endeavoured to follow the tracks outside.</p>
			<p>I did not join either party, nor did Sir Lawrence. We both realised the futility of any attempt to trace the fugitives, and recognised that the suggestion was made by Thorndyke merely to get rid of the unwanted supernumeraries. Accordingly we took up a position outside the fence, which we could just look over, and watched the proceedings of Thorndyke and Inspector Badger, as they passed slowly along the side of the house, each with the light of his lantern thrown full on the ground.</p>
			<p>They had gone but a few paces when they picked up on the soft, loamy path the fairly clear impressions of two pairs of feet going towards the back of the house. Both the investigators paused and stooped to examine them, and Badger remarked: ‘So they came in at the front gate-naturally, as it was the easiest way. But they must have been pretty sure that there was no one in the house to see them. And that suggests that they knew the ways of the household and that they had lurked about to watch Mr. Drayton and Mrs. Benham off the premises.’</p>
			<p>‘Is it possible to distinguish one man from the other?’ Drayton asked.</p>
			<p>‘Yes, quite easily,’ Badger replied. ‘One of them is a biggish man⁠—close on six feet, I should say⁠—while the other is quite a small man. That will be the one that Miss Blake saw.’</p>
			<p>They followed the tracks to the back of the house, and as we followed on our side of the fence Thorndyke called out: ‘Be careful, Anstey, not to tread in the tracks where they came over the fence. We ought to get specially clear prints of their feet where they jumped down. Could you get a light?’</p>
			<p>‘I’ll go and get one of the acetylene lamps from the car,’ said Drayton. ‘You stay where you are until I come back.’</p>
			<p>He was but a short time absent, and when he returned he was provided with a powerful lamp and a couple of small mats. ‘I have brought these,’ he explained ‘to lay on any particularly clear footprints to protect them from chance injury. We mustn’t lose the faintest shadow of a clue.’</p>
			<p>With the aid of the brilliant light Drayton and I explored the ground at the foot of the fence. Suddenly Sir Lawrence exclaimed:</p>
			<p>‘Why, these look like a woman’s footprints!’ and he pointed to a set of rather indistinct impressions running parallel to the fence.</p>
			<p>They will be Miss Blake’s,’ said I. ‘She ran round this way. Yes, here is the place where the man came over. What extraordinarily clear impressions this ground takes. It shows the very brads in the heels.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ he agreed; ‘this is the Hampstead sand, you know; one of the finest foundry-sands in the country.’</p>
			<p>He laid one of the mats carefully on the pair of footprints, and we continued our explorations towards the back of the house. Here we saw Thorndyke and the inspector, each kneeling on a mat, examining a confused mass of footprints on the ground between the museum window and the fence.</p>
			<p>‘Have you found the cartridge-case?’ I asked.</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ replied Thorndyke. ‘Badger has it. It is a “Baby Browning.” And I think we have seen all there is to see here by this light. Can you see where the big man came down from the fence? He went over where I am throwing the light.’</p>
			<p>We approached the spot cautiously, and at the place indicated perceived the very clear and deep impression of a large right foot with a much less distinct print of a left foot, both having the heels towards the fence; and a short distance in front of them the soft, loamy earth bore a clear impression of a left hand with the fingers spread out, and a fainter print of a right hand.</p>
			<p>I reported these facts to Thorndyke, who at once decided to come over and examine the prints. Handing his lamp over a few paces farther along the fence, he climbed up and dropped lightly by my side, followed almost immediately by Inspector Badger.</p>
			<p>‘This,’ said the inspector, gazing down at the foot and hand-prints, ‘bears out what we saw from the inside. He wasn’t any too active, this chappie. Probably fat⁠—a big, heavy, awkward man. Had to pull the garden seat up to the fence to enable him to get over, though it was an easy fence to climb with those big cross-rails; and here, you see, he comes down all of a heap on his hands and knees. However, that doesn’t help us a great deal. He isn’t the only fat man in the world. We had better go indoors now and have a look at the room and see if we can find out what has been taken.’</p>
			<p>We turned to retrace our steps towards the gate, pausing on our way to lift the mats and inspect the footprints of the smaller man; and as we went Drayton asked if anything of interest had been discovered.</p>
			<p>‘No,’ replied Badger. ‘They got in without any difficulty by forcing back the catch of the window⁠—unless the window was open already. It isn’t quite clear whether they both got in. The big man walked part of the way round the house and along the fence in both directions, and he pulled a garden seat up to the fence to help himself up. The small man came out of the window last, if they were both inside, and I expect it was he who dropped this⁠—must have had it in his hand when he climbed out’⁠—and here the inspector produced from his pocket a ring, set with a single round stone, which he handed to Sir Lawrence.</p>
			<p>‘Ah,’ said the latter, ‘a posy-ring, one of the cat’s eye series. There were several of these and a set of moonstone rings in the same drawer.’</p>
			<p>‘You know the collection pretty well, then. Sir Lawrence?’</p>
			<p>‘Fairly well. I often used to look over the things with my poor brother. But, of course, I can’t remember all the specimens, though I think I can show you the drawer that this came from.’</p>
			<p>By this time we had entered the house and were making our way to the museum. On entering the room, Drayton walked straight to the cabinet which I remembered to have seen open, and pulled out the second drawer from the top.</p>
			<p>‘This is the one,’ said he. ‘They have taken out the glass top⁠—I suppose those are the pieces of it on the floor.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ said Badger. ‘We found it open, and it seems to be the only drawer that has been tampered with.’</p>
			<p>Drayton pulled out the top drawer, and having looked closely at the glass cover, remarked: ‘They have had this one open, too. There are distinct fingerprints on the glass; and they have had the cover off for there are finger-marks on the inside of the glass. I wonder why they did that.’</p>
			<p>‘I can’t imagine.’ said Badger. ‘They don’t seem to have taken anything⁠—there wasn’t anything worth taking, for that matter. But they could see that without lifting off the glass. However, it is all for the best. We’ll hand this glass cover to the Fingerprint Department and hope they will be able to spot the man that the fingers belong to.’</p>
			<p>As he spoke, he made as if he would lift off the cover, but he was anticipated by Thorndyke, who carefully raised the glass by its leather tab, and taking it up by the edges, held it against the light and examined the fingerprints minutely both on the upper and under surfaces.</p>
			<p>‘The thumbs are on the upper surface,’ he remarked, ‘and the fingers underneath; so the glass was lifted right out and held with both hands.’</p>
			<p>He handed the glass to the inspector, who had been watching him uneasily, and now took the cover from him with evident relief; and as Badger proceeded to deposit it in a safe place, he pushed in the top drawer and returned to the consideration of the second.</p>
			<p>‘There are evidently several pieces missing from this drawer,’ said he, ‘and it may be important to know what they are, though it is rather unlikely that the thieves will try to dispose of them. Can you tell us what they are, Drayton?’</p>
			<p>‘I can tell you roughly,’ was the reply. ‘This drawer contained the collection of posy-rings, and most of them are there still, as you can see. The front row were rings set with moonstone and cat’s eye, and most of those are gone. Then there was a group of moonstone and cat’s eye ornaments, mostly brooches and earrings, and one pendant. Those have all disappeared. And there is another thing that was in this drawer that has apparently been taken; a locket. It was shaped like a book and had a Greek inscription on the front.’</p>
			<p>‘So far as you can see, Sir Lawrence,’ said Badger, ‘has anything of value been taken⁠—of real value, I mean?’</p>
			<p>‘Of negotiable value, you mean,’ Drayton corrected. ‘No. Most of the things were of gold, though not all, but the stones were probably worth no more than a few shillings each. The value was principally in the associations and individual character of the pieces. All of them had inscriptions, and several of them had recorded histories. But that would be of no use to a thief.’</p>
			<p>‘Exactly,’ said Badger. ‘That was what was in my mind. There is something rather amateurish about this robbery. It isn’t quite like the work of a regular hand. The time was foolish, and then all this shooting and stabbing is more like the work of some stray foreign crooks than of a regular tradesman; and as you say, the stuff wasn’t worth the risk⁠—unless there’s something else of more value. Perhaps we had better go through the other cabinets.’</p>
			<p>He produced the bunch of keys from his pocket and had just inserted one into the lock of the next cabinet when Drayton interposed.</p>
			<p>‘There is no need for that, Inspector. If the cabinets are locked and have not been broken open, their contents are intact; and I can tell you that those contents are of no considerable intrinsic value.’</p>
			<p>With this he drew the key from the lock and dropped the bunch in his pocket, a proceeding whereat the inspector smiled sourly and remarked: ‘Then in that case, I think I have finished for the present. I’ll just pack up this glass cover and see if those others were able to follow the tracks of either of these men. And I’ll wish you gentlemen goodnight.’</p>
			<p>Sir Lawrence accompanied him to the drawing-room, and as I learned later, provided the official party with refreshment, and when we were alone I turned to Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>‘I suppose we have finished, too?’</p>
			<p>‘Not quite,’ he replied. ‘There are one or two little matters to be attended to, but we will wait until the police are clear of the premises. They will keep their own counsel and I propose to keep mine, unless I can give them a straight lead.’ He opened his research-case and was thoughtfully looking over its contents when Drayton returned and announced that the police had departed.</p>
			<p>‘Is there anything more that you want to do, Thorndyke?’ he asked.</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ was the reply. ‘For one thing, I should like to see if there are any more fingerprints.’ As he spoke, he pulled out the drawers of the cabinet one after the other, and examined the glass covers. But apparently they had not been touched. At any rate, there were no marks on any of the glasses.</p>
			<p>‘They must have been disturbed soon after they got to work,’ said Drayton ‘as they opened only two drawers.’</p>
			<p>‘Probably,’ Thorndyke agreed, taking from his case a little glass-jar filled with a yellowish powder and fitted with two glass tubes and a rubber bulb. With this apparatus he blew a cloud of the fine powder over the woodwork of the rifled cabinet, and when a thin coating had settled on the polished surface, he tapped the wood gently with the handle of his pocket-knife. At each tap a portion of the coating of powder was jarred on the surface, and then there appeared several oval spots to which it still adhered. Then he gently blew away the rest of the powder, when the oval spots were revealed as fingerprints, standing out white and distinct against the dark wood. Thorndyke now produced from his pocket the hinged board, and opening it, compared the photographs with these new fingerprints, while Drayton and I looked over his shoulder.</p>
			<p>‘They are undoubtedly the same,’ said I, a little surprised at the ease with which I identified these curious markings. ‘Absolutely the same⁠—which is rather odd, seeing that there are the marks of only two digits of the left hand and four of the right. It almost looks as if those particular fingers had got soiled with some greasy material and that the other fingers were clean and had left no mark.’</p>
			<p>‘An admirable suggestion, Anstey,’ said Thorndyke. ‘The same idea had occurred to me, for the prints of these particular fingers are certainly abnormally distinct. Let us see if we can get any confirmation.’ He blew upon each of the fingerprints in turn until most of the powder was dislodged and the markings had become almost invisible. Then, taking my handkerchief, which was of soft silk, and rolling it into a ball, he began to wipe the woodwork with a circular motion, at first very lightly but gradually increasing the pressure until he was rubbing quite vigorously. The result seemed to justify my suggestion, for as the rubbing proceeded, I could see, by the light of Drayton’s lamp, thrown on at various angles, that the fingerprints seemed to have spread out into oval, glistening patches, having a lustre somewhat different from that of the polished wood.</p>
			<p>Sir Lawrence looked on with keen interest, and as Thorndyke paused to examine the woodwork, he asked: ‘What is the exact purpose of this experiment?’</p>
			<p>‘The point is,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘that whereas the fingerprint of the mathematical theorists is a mere abstraction of form devoid of any other properties, the actual or real fingerprint is a material thing which has physical and chemical properties, and these properties may have considerable evidential significance. These fingerprints, for instance, contain some substance other than the natural secretions of the skin. The questions then arise, What is that substance? How came it here? And is it usually associated with any particular kind of person or activity? The specimens that Anstey so judiciously captured may help us to answer the first question, and our native wits may enable us to answer the others. So we have some data for consideration. And that reminds me that there are some other data that we must secure.’</p>
			<p>‘What are they?’ Drayton asked eagerly.</p>
			<p>‘There are those impressions in the sand outside the fence. I must have permanent records of them. Shall we go and do them now? I shall want a jug of water and a light.’</p>
			<p>While Drayton went to fetch the water Thorndyke and I took our way out through the garden to the outside of the fence, he carrying his research-case, and I bearing Drayton’s lamp. At the spot where we had laid down the mat we halted, and Thorndyke, having set down his case, once more lifted the mat.</p>
			<p>‘They are small feet,’ he remarked, glancing at the footprints before stooping to open the case. ‘A striking contrast to the other man’s.’</p>
			<p>He took from his case a tin of plaster of Paris, and dipping up a small quantity in a spoon, proceeded very carefully to dust the footprints with the fine, white powder until they were covered with a thin, even coating. Then he produced a bottle of water fitted with a rubber ball-spray diffuser, and with this blew a copious spray of water over the footprints. As a result, the white powder gradually shrank until the footprints looked as if they had received a thin coat of whitewash.</p>
			<p>‘Why not fill the footprints up with liquid plaster?’ asked Drayton, who came up at this moment carrying a large jug.</p>
			<p>‘It would probably disturb the sand,’ was the reply, ‘and moreover, the water would soak in at once and leave the plaster a crumbling mass. But when this thin layer has set it will be possible to fill up and get a solid cast.’</p>
			<p>He repeated the application of the spray once or twice, and then we went on to the place where the other man had come over. Here the same process was carried out, not only with the footprints but also with those of the hands. Then we went back to the first place, and when Thorndyke had gently touched the edge of the footprints and ascertained that the thin coating of plaster had set into a solid shell, he produced a small rubber basin, and having half filled it with water, added a quantity of plaster and stirred it until it assumed the consistency of cream; when he carefully poured it into the white-coated footprints until they were full and slightly overflowing.</p>
			<p>‘You see the advantage of this?’ said Thorndyke as he cleaned out the basin and started to walk slowly back to the site of the second set of prints.</p>
			<p>‘I do, indeed,’ replied Drayton, ‘and I am astonished that Badger did not take a permanent record. These casts will enable you to put the actual feet of the accused in evidence if need be.’</p>
			<p>‘Precisely; besides giving us the opportunity to study them at our leisure, and refer to them if any fresh evidence should become available.’</p>
			<p>The second set of footprints and the impressions of the hands received similar treatment, and when they had been filled, Thorndyke proceeded to pack up his appliances.</p>
			<p>‘We ought to give the casts a good twenty minutes to set hard,’ he said, ‘though it is the best plaster and quite fresh and has a little powdered alum mixed with it to accelerate setting and make the cast harder. But we mustn’t be impatient.’</p>
			<p>‘I am in no hurry,’ said Drayton. ‘I shall stay here tonight⁠—one couldn’t leave Mrs. Benham in the house all alone. The car can take you back to your chambers and drop Anstey at his lodgings.</p>
			<p>‘Tomorrow we must make some arrangements of a more permanent kind. But the great thing is to get on the track of these two villains. Nothing else seems to matter. There is my poor brother’s corpse, crying aloud to Heaven for justice, and I shall never rest until his murderers have paid their debt.’</p>
			<p>‘I sympathise with you most cordially, Drayton,’ said Thorndyke, ‘and it is no mere verbal sympathy. I promise you that every resource at my disposal shall be called in to aid, that no stone shall be left unturned. It is not only the office of friendship; it is a public duty to ensure that an inexcusable crime of this kind shall be visited with the most complete retribution.’</p>
			<p>‘Thank you. Thorndyke,’ Sir Lawrence said with gruff earnestness. And then after a short pause, he continued: ‘I suppose it is premature to ask you, but do you see any glimmer of hope? Is there anything to lay hold of? I can see for myself that it is a very difficult and obscure case.’</p>
			<p>‘It is,’ Thorndyke agreed. ‘Of course the fingerprints may dispose of the whole difficulty, if they happen to be on the files at the Habitual Criminals Registry. Otherwise there is very little evidence. Still, there is some, and we may build up more by inference. I have seen more unpromising cases come to a successful issue.’</p>
			<p>By this time the stipulated twenty minutes had expired, and we proceeded to the first set of footprints. The plaster, on being tested, was found to be quite firm and hard, and Thorndyke was able, with great care, to lift the two chalky-looking plates from their bed in the ground. And even in the rather unfavourable light of the lamp their appearance was somewhat startling, for, as Thorndyke turned them over, each cast presented the semblance of a white foot, surprisingly complete in detail so far as the sole was concerned.</p>
			<p>But if the appearance of these casts was striking, much more so was that of the second set; for the latter included casts of the handprints, the aspect of which was positively uncanny, especially in the case of the deeper impression, the effect of which was that of a snowy hand with outspread, crooked, clutching fingers. And here again the fine loam had yielded an unexpected amount of detail. The creases and markings of the palm were all perfectly clear and distinct, and I even thought that I could perceive a trace of the ridges of the fingertips.</p>
			<p>Before leaving the spot we carefully removed all traces of plaster, for it was certain that the footprints would be examined by daylight, and Thorndyke considered it better that the existence of these casts should be known only to ourselves. The footprints were left practically intact, and it was open to the police to make casts if they saw fit.</p>
			<p>‘I think,’ said Thorndyke when we had re-entered the house and were inspecting the casts afresh as they lay on the table, ‘it would be a wise precaution to attach our signatures to each of them, in case it should be necessary at any time to put them in evidence. Their genuineness would then be attested beyond any possibility of dispute.’</p>
			<p>To this Drayton and I agreed most emphatically, and accordingly each of us wrote his name, with the date, on the smooth back of each cast. Then the ‘records’ were carefully packed and bestowed in the research-case, and Thorndyke and I shook our host’s hand and went forth to the car.</p>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
