<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="ch13" name="ch13"/>XIII. — THORNDYKE STATES HIS POSITION</h2>
			<p class="first">Recalling the events of the evening after leaving the studio, I am sensible of a somewhat hazy interval between the moment when I turned the corner of Jacob Street and my arrival at the familiar precincts of the Temple. After the fashion of the aboriginal Londoner, I had simply set my face in the desired direction and walked, unconscious of particular streets, instinctively or subconsciously heading for my destination by the shortest route. And meanwhile my mind was busy with the stirring incidents of this most eventful day, with its swift alternations of storm and sunshine, its terror, its despair, and its golden reward. So my thoughts now alternated between joy at the attainment of a happiness scarcely hoped for and apprehension of the dangers that lurked unseen, ready to spring forth and wreck the life that was more to me than my own.</p>
			<p>Thus meditating, I sped through by-streets innumerable and unnoted, crossing quiet squares and traversing narrow courts and obscure passages, but always shunning the main thoroughfares with their disturbing glare and noise, until I came, as it were, to the surface at the end of Chichester Rents, and turned into Chancery Lane. There the familiar surroundings brought me back to my everyday world, and my thoughts took a new direction. What would Thorndyke have to say to my news? Had he any resources unknown to me for staving off this very imminent danger? And would the terrible episode of the empty house convey any enlightenment to him that I had missed?</p>
			<p>Still revolving these questions, I dived down Middle Temple Lane and presently became aware of a tall figure some little distance ahead, walking in the same direction as my own. I had nearly overtaken him when he turned at the entrance to Pump Court and looked back, whereupon a mutual recognition brought us both to a halt.</p>
			<p>‘I expect we are bound for the same port, Anstey,’ said he as we shook hands. ‘I am going to call on Thorndyke. You are still helping him, aren’t you?’</p>
			<p>‘He says I am, and I hope it is true. At any rate, Jervis has not come back yet, if that is what you mean. I suppose, Drayton, you haven’t any fresh information for us?’</p>
			<p>Sir Lawrence shook his head gloomily. ‘No,’ he answered, ‘I have learned nothing new, nor, I fear, are any of us likely to. Those brutes seem to have got away without leaving a trace that it is possible to make anything of. We can’t expect impossibilities even of Thorndyke. But I am not calling on him with reference to the murder case. I want him to come down with me to Aylesbury to help me with an interview. A question of survivorship has arisen, and he knows more about that subject than I do, so I should like him to elicit the facts, if possible.’</p>
			<p>As we walked through Pump Court and the Cloisters, I debated with myself whether I should tell Drayton of the horror that this day had witnessed. He was an interested party in more than one sense, for he had the warmest regard for Winifred. But I knew that he would be profoundly shocked, and as he continued to talk of the case on which he wanted Thorndyke’s advice, I said nothing for the present.</p>
			<p>When I let myself and Drayton in with my latch-key, we found Thorndyke seated at the table with a microscope and a tray of reagents and mounting materials, preparing slides of animal hairs to add to his already extensive collection.</p>
			<p>‘I am ashamed to disturb you at this hour,’ Drayton began.</p>
			<p>But Thorndyke interrupted him. ‘You are not disturbing me at all. This kind of work can be taken up and put down at any moment.’</p>
			<p>‘It is very good of you to say so,’ said Drayton, ‘and I will take you at your word.’ And thereupon he opened the matter of which he had spoken to me.</p>
			<p>‘When do you want me to come down to Aylesbury?’ Thorndyke asked.</p>
			<p>‘The day after tomorrow, if you can manage it.’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke reflected for a few moments as he picked up with his forceps a newly-cleaned cover-glass, and delicately dropped it on the specimen that floated in its little pool of balsam.</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ he said at length, ‘I think we can arrange that. There isn’t very much doing just now.’</p>
			<p>‘Very well,’ said Sir Lawrence. ‘Then I will call for you at ten o’clock, and I needn’t trouble you with any details now. We can talk the case over on the way down.’ He rose as if to depart, but as he turned towards the door, he stopped and looked back at Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>‘I am afraid,’ said he, ‘that I have rather neglected our friend Miss Blake. Has either of you seen her lately?’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke gave me a quick look, and in the short interval before replying, I could see that he was rapidly debating how much he should tell Sir Lawrence. Apparently he reached the same conclusion as I had, that we could hardly conceal material facts from him, for he replied:</p>
			<p>‘Yes, we have both seen her quite lately; in fact, I think Anstey has just come from her studio. And I am sorry to say, we are both rather anxious about her.’</p>
			<p>‘Indeed,’ said Drayton, laying down his hat and seating himself. ‘What is amiss with her?’</p>
			<p>‘The trouble is,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘that she is the sole witness to the identity of the murderers, and they realise it, and they have determined, accordingly, to get rid of her.’ And here he gave Sir Lawrence an account of the incident of the poisoned chocolates and the circumstances that had led up to it.</p>
			<p>Drayton was thunderstruck. As he listened to Thorndyke’s vivid and precise narration, he sat motionless, with parted lips and his hands on his knees, the very picture of amazement and horror.</p>
			<p>‘But, good God!’ he exclaimed, when Thorndyke had finished ‘this is perfectly frightful! It is a horrible state of things. Something must be done, you know. It is practically certain that they will make some further attempt.’</p>
			<p>‘They have already,’ said I. And as the two men turned to me with looks of startled inquiry, I recounted⁠—not without discomfort in recalling them⁠—the terrible events of that afternoon.</p>
			<p>My two friends listened with rapt attention as I told the hideous story, and on each it produced characteristic effects. Sir Lawrence glared at me with a scowl of suppressed fury, while Thorndyke’s face settled into a rigid immobility like that of a stone mask.</p>
			<p>When I had concluded, Drayton sprang to his feet and began to pace the room in uncontrollable agitation, muttering and cursing under his breath. Suddenly he halted opposite Thorndyke, and gazing frowningly into his set face, demanded: ‘Is it not possible to do something? Something radical and effective, I mean? I don’t know what cards you hold, Thorndyke, and I am not going to embarrass you by asking for details, but are you in a position to make any kind of move?’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke, who had also risen, and now stood with his back to the fire, looked down reflectively for a few moments. At length he replied:</p>
			<p>‘The difficulty is, Drayton, that if we move prematurely, we run a serious risk of failing, and we can’t afford to fail.’</p>
			<p>‘Do I understand, then, that you are in a position to take action?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes. But it would be extremely unsafe, for if we fail once we fail finally. It would be a gamble, and we should quite probably lose. Whereas, if we can wait, we shall have these men to a certainty. We have taken their measure and we know now exactly what kind of persons we are dealing with. You see, Drayton,’ he continued after a brief pause, ‘secret crime most commonly comes to light through the efforts of the criminal to cover his tracks. That is so in the present case. All that I know as to the identity of these men I have learned from their struggles to conceal it. But for their multitudinous precautions I should have known nothing about them. And you see for yourself that they are criminals of the usual kind who will not let well alone. They keep making fresh efforts to secure their safety, and each time they make a move we learn something more about them. If only we can wait, they will surely deliver themselves into our hands.’</p>
			<p>There was a brief silence. Then Sir Lawrence gave utterance to the thought that was in my own mind.</p>
			<p>‘That is all very well, Thorndyke, and as a lawyer I fully understand your desire to get a conclusive case before making a move. But can we afford to wait? Are we justified in using this poor young lady as a bait to enable us to catch these villains?’</p>
			<p>‘If that were the position,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘there could be but one answer. But we must remember that the capture of these men is the condition on which her safety depends. If we fail, we fail for her as well as for ourselves.’</p>
			<p>‘Then,’ asked Drayton, ‘what do you suggest? You don’t propose to stand by passively until they make some fresh attempt to murder her?’</p>
			<p>‘No. I suggest that more complete precautions be taken to secure Miss Blake’s safety, and meanwhile I hope to fill in one or two blanks in my collection of evidential facts and perhaps induce these men to make a move in a new direction. I think I can promise to bring the affair to a climax in one way or another, and that pretty soon.’</p>
			<p>‘Very well,’ said Drayton, once more taking up his hat. ‘But who is going to look after Miss Blake?’</p>
			<p>‘Anstey has taken that duty on himself,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘and I don’t think any one could do it better. If he wants assistance or advice, he has only to call upon us.’</p>
			<p>With this arrangement Drayton appeared to be satisfied, though he still appeared uneasy⁠—as, indeed, we all were. But he made no further suggestion, and very shortly took his leave.</p>
			<p>For some time after his departure not a word was spoken. The conversation that had just taken place had given me abundant food for reflection, while Thorndyke, who still stood with his back to the fire, maintained a grim silence. Evidently he was thinking hard, and a glance at his face⁠—stern, rigid, inexorable⁠—assured me that his cogitations boded ill for those who had aroused his righteous anger. At length he looked up and asked:</p>
			<p>‘What measures can you suggest for Miss Blake’s protection?’</p>
			<p>‘I have told her that, for the present, she must not go out of doors on any occasion whatever unless accompanied by me⁠—or, of course, by you or Drayton. She has promised to abide absolutely by that rule and to make no exception to it. She has also promised to keep the studio door locked and to inspect any visitors from the window of the bedroom adjoining before unlocking it.’</p>
			<p>‘If she keeps to those rules she should be quite safe,’ said Thorndyke. ‘They are not likely to try to break in. There is a man living on the premises, I think?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes. Mr. Wingrave is about the place at his work most of the day, and, of course, he is always there at night.’</p>
			<p>‘Then, I think we may feel reasonably secure for the present; and I am glad you have made such complete arrangements, for I was going to suggest that you come down with us to Aylesbury.’</p>
			<p>‘With what object?’ I asked. ‘Drayton won’t want me at the conference.’</p>
			<p>‘No. But it just occurred to me that, as we shall be within a mile or two of Beauchamp Blake and can easily take it on our way back, we might go and have a look at the place and see if we can pick up any information on the spot. I believe the question of the sale of the property is more or less in abeyance, but it would be just as well to make a few inquiries locally.’</p>
			<p>I received the suggestion with some surprise but no enthusiasm.</p>
			<p>‘Doesn’t it seem rather inopportune,’ I said, ‘with these imminent dangers impending, to be occupying ourselves in prosecuting this shadowy claim? Surely this is no time for building castles in the air. The chance of young Percival’s ever coming into this property is infinitely remote, and we can attend to it when we have done with more urgent matters.’</p>
			<p>‘If we attend to it at all,’ he replied ‘we must do so when we have the opportunity. Should the property be sold, Percy’s chance will be gone for good. And the conflict between our two purposes is only in your mind. The fact of our keeping an eye on Percy’s interests will not hinder our pursuit of the wretches who murdered poor Drayton and would now murder Percy’s sister. You can trust me for that.’</p>
			<p>‘No, I suppose it won’t,’ I admitted. ‘And you seem to take Percy’s claim to this estate quite seriously.’</p>
			<p>‘It is impossible to do otherwise,’ said he. ‘It may be impossible to prove it, even if an opportunity should arise. But it is a real claim, and what little chance he has ought to be preserved. It mustn’t be lost by our negligence.’</p>
			<p>I was not keen on the expedition, but I knew what Winifred’s sentiments would have been, and loyalty to her bade me assent, though in my own mind, I felt it to be a fruitless and somewhat foolish errand. Accordingly I agreed to form one of the party on the day after the morrow, a decision which Thorndyke received with more satisfaction than the occasion seemed to warrant.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
