<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="ch20" name="ch20"/>XX. — QED</h2>
			<p class="first">To an enthusiastic and truly efficient gourmet it might be difficult to assess the respective merits of the different stages of a really good dinner; to compare the satisfactions yielded, for instance, by the first tentative approaches⁠—the little affairs of outposts⁠—with the voracious joy of the grand onslaught on tangible and manducable solids; or again with the placid diminuendo, the half-hearted rear-guard actions, concerned with the unsubstantial trifles on which defeated appetite delivers its expiring kick. For my own part, I can offer no opinion⁠—at any rate, without refreshing my memory as to the successive sensations; but I recall that as our dinner drew to a close, signs of expectancy began to manifest themselves (in Mr. Brodribb’s case they seemed to be associated with the advent of the port decanter), and when Polton had evacuated the casualties to an aid-post established in the adjacent office, Sir Lawrence gave expression to the prevailing state of mind.</p>
			<p>‘I suppose, Thorndyke, you know what is expected of you?’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke turned an impassive face towards his guest. ‘On these triumphal occasions,’ said he, ‘I usually smoke a Trichinopoly cigar. On this occasion, I presume, I am expected to refrain.’</p>
			<p>‘Not at all,’ replied Drayton. ‘I think we can endure the Trichy with reasonable fortitude; what we can’t endure is the agony of curiosity. We demand enlightenment.’</p>
			<p>‘You want to know how the “little Sphinx” answered its own riddle. Is that your demand?’</p>
			<p>‘I understood you to say,’ said I, ‘that the problem of the crime and that of the missing deeds were one and the same.’</p>
			<p>‘I said that they were closely connected. But if you want an exposition of the unravelment, it will be more convenient to take them separately and in the order in which they were presented. In which case we begin with the crime.’</p>
			<p>He paused, and I saw him glance with an indulgent smile towards the office door which was incompletely closed, and from which issued faint sounds of furtive movement which informed us that Polton had elected to take his dinner within earshot of the exposition.</p>
			<p>‘We had better begin,’ he proceeded, ‘with the facts presented to us on the night of the tragedy. First as to the criminals. There were traces of two men, and only two. One of these was a tall man, as shown by the size of his feet. He appeared to suffer from some weakness of the left leg. The sound of his footsteps, as heard by Anstey, suggested a slightly lame man, but as he ran away rapidly he could not have been very lame. Yet there was some distinct disability, since he had to draw up a garden seat to enable him to get over a fence which we climbed easily; and the faint impression of the left foot under the fence showed that, when he jumped down, the weight was taken principally by the right. Examination of the cast of his left hand showed a depressed scar on the tip of the forefinger. We also gathered that he carried a Baby Browning pistol and appeared to be a skilful pistol shot.</p>
			<p>‘Of the other man we learned less. He was noticeably small and slight; he was left-handed; he had dark hair, and at the time of the robbery he was wearing gloves, apparently of kid or thin leather. But later, when examining the tuft of his hair that was found grasped by the deceased, we made an important discovery. Among those dark hairs was a single blonde hair⁠—not white, but golden⁠—which could not have come from his own head. Of its presence there seemed to be only two possible explanations: either it had been rubbed off, or had fallen from the head of some other person, or it had become detached from the inside of a wig. But the first explanation was ruled out⁠—’</p>
			<p>‘How?’ demanded Brodribb.</p>
			<p>‘By its appearance under the microscope. When you find an alien hair, on your coat-sleeve, for instance⁠—’</p>
			<p>‘I don’t,’ said Brodribb, ‘at my time of life.’</p>
			<p>‘⁠—If you examine it under the microscope, or even with a strong lens, you will invariably find it to be a dead hair⁠—a hair which has completed its growth and dropped out of its sheath. You can identify it by the presence of the complete bulb and the absence of the inner root-sheath (which would be adherent to it if it had been pulled out while growing). Well, this blonde hair had no bulb. It had both ends broken, which suggested unusual brittleness, as if it had been treated with some bleach, such as chlorine or hydrogen peroxide. But the hair of wigs shows absence of bulbs and is commonly so treated and is usually somewhat brittle. Thus the probability was that this man had recently worn a wig of artificially bleached hair.</p>
			<p>‘These were our initial data concerning these two men. There were also some fingerprints, but we will consider those separately. The initial data included the character of the things stolen. These were of insignificant intrinsic value and were very easily identifiable. They were thus quite unacceptable to the ordinary professional thief, yet the evidence (of the suspicious visitor) suggested that they knew what they were stealing. One of the things stolen⁠—the cat’s eye pendant⁠—was known to have an extrinsic value and to have been eagerly sought by other persons, and there was thus the bare suggestion that this pendant might have been the object of the robbery.</p>
			<p>‘We now come to the fingerprints. These presented some very remarkable anomalies. In the first place, they were not the fingerprints of either of the robbers. That was certain. The small man wore gloves, so they could not have been his; and the tall man had a depressed scar on the tip of his left forefinger, whereas there was no trace of any such scar on the corresponding fingerprint. But if they were not the fingerprints of either of the robbers, whose fingerprints were they? There was no trace of any third person, and it was practically certain that no third person was present.</p>
			<p>‘But there was another striking anomaly. Although there were numerous impressions, only six digits were represented⁠—the forefinger and thumb of the left hand and the thumb and the first three fingers of the right. Every impression of the right hand showed the same four digits, every impression of the left showed the same two.</p>
			<p>‘Now what could be the explanation of this curious repetition? Anstey’s very reasonable suggestion was that the man had soiled these particular digits with some foreign substance and that, consequently, the soiled digits alone had made prints. This suggestion received a certain amount of support from the fact that a foreign substance actually was present⁠—it proved, on examination, to be Japanese wax. But though the presence of the wax accounted for the distinctness of the fingerprints that were there, it did not explain why the other fingers had made no mark at all. I examined the glass which bore the fingerprints with the utmost minuteness, but in no case was there the faintest trace of the other fingers. Yet those fingers, if they had existed, must have touched the glass, and if they had touched it they would have made marks. The only explanation seemed to be that there were no other fingers; that the prints were not real fingerprints at all, but counterfeits made by means of facsimile stamps of rubber, roller-composition, or⁠—more probably⁠—chrome gelatine.</p>
			<p>‘It seemed a far-fetched hypothesis. But it fitted all the facts, and there seemed to be no other explanation. Thus the use of a set of stamps would explain the existence of a set of fingerprints which were not those of either of the parties present; it would explain the repetition of the same group of digits (on the assumption that only six stamps were available which might easily be the case if these stamps were copies of a particular group of fingerprints); and lastly, it would explain the presence of the Japanese wax.’</p>
			<p>‘How would it?’ I asked.</p>
			<p>‘Well, some foreign substance would be necessary. In a real fingerprint⁠—on glass, for instance⁠—the mark is produced by the natural grease of the fingers. But a rubber or gelatine stamp has no natural grease. It is quite dry, and would make no mark at all unless it were charged with some sticky or greasy material. Now Japanese wax is an ideal material for the purpose. It is markedly sticky and would consequently develop up splendidly with dusting powder; it has no tendency to spread or run, so that it gives very clear impressions; and it might easily be mistaken for natural skin-grease.</p>
			<p>‘The counterfeit fingerprints hypothesis was, therefore, the only one that explained the facts, and I adopted it provisionally, assuming that the stamps were probably thin plates of rubber or gelatine cemented on the finger tips of the gloves worn by the short man.</p>
			<p>‘A few days later I received a visit from Detective-Superintendent Miller who informed me that the fingerprints had been identified at the registry as those of a well-known “habitual” named Hedges, more commonly known as Moakey. Of course this did not alter the position since there was no evidence that Moakey had ever been on the premises. However, I decided to wait until he was arrested and hear what he had to say. But he never was arrested. A day or two later, the Superintendent called on me again, and this time he settled the matter finally. My impression was, and is, that he came intending to make a clean breast of the matter, but that at the last moment he shied at the responsibility of giving away official secrets. What he actually said was that there had been a mistake; that the fingerprints were not Moakey’s after all.</p>
			<p>‘Of course this was absurd. A mistake might occur with a single fingerprint, but with a set of six it was incredible. What had happened appeared to me quite obvious. The fingerprints had been submitted to the experts, who had at once identified them as Moakey’s. Then the executive had set out to arrest Moakey⁠—and had discovered that he was in prison. If that was really what had happened, it furnished conclusive proof that the fingerprints were forgeries.</p>
			<p>‘At once I set to work to ascertain if it were so. I searched the lists of convictions at assizes, quarter-sessions, and so forth, and eventually ran Moakey to earth. He had been convicted six months previously and sentenced to two years’ imprisonment with hard labour. So, at the date of the murder, he had been in prison about six months.</p>
			<p>‘We were now on solid ground. We knew that the fingerprints were forgeries. But we knew more than this. The forgery of a fingerprint, unlike that of a signature, is a purely mechanical operation, carried out either by photography or by some other reproductive process. The forged print is necessarily a mechanical copy of an existing real print. Whence it follows that the existence of a forgery is evidence of the existence of an original. And more than that, it is evidence that the forger had access to that original. Now these forgeries were copies of Moakey’s fingerprints. It followed that we had to look for somebody who had had access to Moakey’s fingerprints.</p>
			<p>‘Fortunately we had not far to look. At the first interview the Superintendent had referred to a previous exploit of Moakey’s; a burglary at a country house, when that artist was apprehended and convicted on the evidence of his fingerprints, which were found on a silver salver. A photograph of these fingerprints was immediately taken by the owner of the house and given to the police, who took them straight to Scotland Yard. I looked up the report of that case and had the good fortune to find that the fingerprints were described. There were six of them, the thumb and first three fingers of the right hand, and the forefinger and thumb of the left hand.</p>
			<p>‘This was extremely interesting. But still more so was the fact that the house which was broken into was Beauchamp Blake, and the further fact that the owner who photographed the fingerprints was Mr. Arthur Blake.</p>
			<p>‘I need not point out the importance of the discovery. It told us that Arthur Blake had had, and presumably still had, in his possession, a set of negatives with which it was possible to make the stamps of these very fingerprints. It did not, however, follow that he had made the stamps, for that would demand an amount of technical knowledge and skill far beyond that of an ordinary photographer; knowledge ordinarily possessed only by professional photo-engravers. He might have such knowledge or he might have employed some one else. At any rate, he had the negatives and had made them himself.</p>
			<p>‘But Blake was not only associated with the fingerprints. He was also associated with the stolen property. Of all the persons known to us, he was the most likely to wish to acquire the cat’s eye pendant. So, you see, the investigation, which started with a certain connection with Beauchamp Blake, led us straight to Beauchamp Blake again. And there we will leave it for the moment and approach the problem from one or two different directions.</p>
			<p>‘First we will consider the mysterious woman who came into view on the day of the inquest and who presumably sent the poisoned chocolates. Who was she? And what was her connection with the case? Now, the first thing that struck me in the description of her was her hair. It was of that brassy, golden tint that one associates with bleaches such as hydrogen peroxide. I recalled the stray hair from the small man’s head which had suggested that he had worn a wig of precisely this character. The obvious suggestion was that this woman and that small man were one and the same person. They appeared to be similar in stature, there were good reasons why they should be the same, and no reasons why they should not. But, assuming them to be the same (it was afterwards proved that they were) the question arose, is this woman a disguised man or was that man a disguised woman? The latter view was clearly the more probable, for whereas a woman, if she cuts her hair short, will pass easily for a clean-shaved man, a clean-shaved man does not pass so easily for a woman, especially if he is dark, as this person was. It seemed probable, therefore, that this was really a woman⁠—a dark woman wearing a fair wig. But who she was, and what⁠—if any⁠—was her relation to Blake, remained for the present a mystery.</p>
			<p>‘We now come to the man Halliburton. Obviously he was an object of deep suspicion. His only known address was an hotel. He visited Andrew Drayton without any reasonable purpose. He tried unsuccessfully to purchase the cat’s eye pendant, and within four days of his failure the jewel was stolen. Then he disappeared, leaving no trace.</p>
			<p>‘Anstey and I called at his hotel to make enquiries about him. There we obtained a photograph of his signature, which we have not used, but which will be produced at the inquest, and we acquired some information which has been invaluable. He had lost, and left behind, a mascot which he valued so highly that he offered ten pounds reward for its recovery. We got the loan of it, and Polton made this indistinguishable facsimile.’ Here Thorndyke passed round Polton’s masterpiece for inspection. ‘Now,’ he continued, ‘in connection with this mascot, two very important facts emerged. One was that, as Anstey expressed it, this man was a superstitious ass, a man who believed in the occult properties of mascots and charms. The importance of that becomes evident when we remember that the cat’s eye was, in effect, a mascot⁠—an object credited with occult powers affecting the fortunes of its owner. It enables us to understand his anxiety to possess the cat’s eye.</p>
			<p>‘The other important fact emerges from the nature of the thing itself. It is a neck vertebra of an Echidna, or porcupine ant-eater, decorated with aboriginal ornament. The Echidna is an animal peculiar to Tasmania and Australia, and the ornament is distinctive of the locality. This mascot, therefore, established some connection between Halliburton and Australasia. But Blake had lived most of his adult life in Australia. There was, however, a difficulty. Punched on the mascot⁠—apparently with typefounder’s steel punches⁠—were the letters o and h. The name signed in the hotel register was Oscar Halliburton, and these letters seemed to be his initials. But if that was so, Oscar Halliburton would appear to be a real person and consequently could not be Arthur Blake.</p>
			<p>‘Thus, at this stage of the inquiry, on the hypothesis that the robbery had been committed by Blake, we had two persons whom we could not account for⁠—the unknown woman (possibly a man) and Mr. Oscar Halliburton.</p>
			<p>‘But just as we appeared to have reached an impasse, Mr. Brodribb threw a flood of light on the problem. For different reasons, Sir Lawrence and I were anxious to obtain some particulars of Arthur Blake and his affairs, and these particulars Mr. Brodribb was fortunately in a position to supply. The information that he furnished amounted to this:</p>
			<p>‘Arthur Blake appeared to be a decent, industrious man with nothing against him but the rather queer company that he had kept. He had been associated in Australia with a man named Hugh Owen, who was a person of shady antecedents, and who, on his side, was associated with a woman named Laura Levinsky who appeared to be definitely a bad character, and who, like Owen, was under police observation. These two persons seem to have separated immediately after Blake’s departure for England, and both disappeared. Levinsky was lost sight of for good, but Owen’s body⁠—or rather unrecognisable remains⁠—came to light some years later and was identified by a ring which was known to have belonged to Owen.</p>
			<p>‘Certain particulars that Mr. Brodribb gave concerning Owen made a considerable impression on me. For instance, it appeared that Owen was originally a photo-engraver by trade and that he had later owned a small type-foundry. Also that he had fractured his left kneecap and that this injury was certainly never completely repaired. But the first thing that struck me on looking at this party of three was that whereas Blake appears to have been a respectable man and most unlikely to have committed an atrocious crime such as the one we were investigating, the same could not be said of his two companions, and inevitably I found the question creeping into my mind: Is it certain that those remains were really the remains of Owen? Or may it have been that they were those of Arthur Blake? That these two criminals had murdered Blake when Brodribb’s letter arrived: that Owen had taken the papers and credentials and come to England personating Blake, and that Levinsky had come by another route?</p>
			<p>‘It seemed, perhaps, a rather violent supposition; but it was quite possible; and the instant it was adopted as a working hypothesis, all the difficulties of the case vanished as if by magic. We could now account for the mysterious woman. We could also account for Halliburton, for the letters on the mascot could be read either way-o h for Oscar Halliburton or h o for Hugh Owen; and Owen had possessed and used in his type-foundry steel punches exactly like those with which the letters had been made; and further, Owen was a native of Tasmania and had lived many years in Australia. He fitted the mascot perfectly.</p>
			<p>‘Then Owen had been a photo-engraver; that is to say, he possessed the very kind of knowledge and skill that was necessary to make the stamps for the fingerprints; and he agreed with the taller of the two criminals in that he had a marked weakness of the left leg. In short, the agreements were so striking as to leave little doubt in my mind that our two criminals were Owen and Levinsky, and that the former was in possession of Beauchamp Blake, personating the murdered owner.</p>
			<p>‘One point only remained to be verified in order to complete this aspect of the case. We had to ascertain whether the man who was posing as Arthur Blake had, in fact, fractured a knee-cap. I was casting about for some means of getting this information when the third attempt was made on Miss Blake’s life, and it became evident that the danger to her was too great to admit of further delay. Just then Sir Lawrence asked me to go down with him to Aylesbury, and that proposal suggested to me the plan of visiting Beauchamp Blake and making an unmistakable demonstration. I had learned from Mr. Brodribb something of the squire’s habits, and I got further details from the landlord of the “King’s Head.” With the help of the latter I obtained access to the park at the time when the squire would be coming out, and I planted myself, with Anstey, where we were bound to be noticed.</p>
			<p>‘My object was twofold. First, I wanted to ascertain, if possible, whether the squire had any abnormal condition of the left leg, and if so, whether that condition was probably due to a fractured knee-cap, and secondly, I proposed to make such a demonstration as would convince him (if he were really Owen) that it was useless to murder Miss Blake until he had settled with me, and that it would be highly unsafe to make any further attempts. To this latter end I attached Polton’s facsimile of the mascot to my watch-guard, where it could hardly fail to be seen, and then, as I have said, I planted myself on the road leading to the gate.</p>
			<p>‘Both purposes were achieved. I was able to verify with my own eyes the landlord’s statement that the squire habitually mounted his horse from the off-side, a most inconvenient method of mounting, but one that would be rendered absolutely necessary by a fractured left knee-cap. Then, as I had expected, he recognised me instantly⁠—no doubt from the portrait published in the newspapers⁠—and dismounted to examine me more closely; and when he came near, he saw the mascot and it was obvious that he recognised it. I detached it and handed it to him, giving him such details as must have made clear to him that I knew its history and knew of his connection with it. His manner left me in no doubt that he fully understood the hint and that he accepted my challenge, and further proof was furnished by the fact that he sent a man to shadow us home and ascertain for certain who we were. So that matters were now on a perfectly definite footing, and I may add that further verification, if it had been needed, was supplied by the circumstance that, on this very day, Anstey caught a glimpse of Levinsky, disguised as a man, in the market square at Aylesbury. The rest of the story I think you all know.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ said Drayton, ‘we gathered that from your written statement. But what is not clear to me is why you considered it necessary to thrust your head into the lion’s jaws. You seem to have had a complete case against these two wretches. Why couldn’t you have lodged an information and had them arrested?’</p>
			<p>‘I was afraid to take the risk,’ replied Thorndyke. ‘To us the case looks complete. But how would it have looked to the police? or to a possibly unimaginative magistrate? or, especially to a jury of ordinary, and perhaps thick-headed, tradesmen and artisans? Juries like direct evidence, and that was what I was trying to produce. I had no doubt that these two persons would try to murder me and Anstey, and that we should prevent them from succeeding. Then we could charge them with the attempt and prove it by direct evidence, after which we could have proceeded confidently with the second charge of the murder of Andrew Drayton.’</p>
			<p>‘I think Thorndyke was right,’ said I, seeing that Sir Lawrence still looked doubtful. ‘From my large experience of juries in criminal cases, I feel that this intricate train of inferential evidence would have been rather unconvincing by itself, but that it would have been quite effective if it had come after a charge supported by the testimony of eye-witnesses, such as we should have been.’</p>
			<p>‘Well,’ said Drayton, ‘we will agree that the circumstances justified the risk, and certainly the unravelment of this case by means of such almost invisible data is a most remarkable achievement. This exposition has whetted my appetite for the explanation of the other mystery.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ said Winifred. ‘I am on tenterhooks to hear how you made the “little Sphinx” answer its own riddle. Shall I hand you the locket?’</p>
			<p>‘If you please; and the Book of Hours. And if we can get Polton to put the microscope on the table with the slide that is on the stage, we shall have all that we want for the demonstration.’</p>
			<p>At this Polton emerged unblushingly from the office, and having put the microscope on the table, carefully adjusted the mirror and then, with brazen effrontery, took a long and intent look through the instrument, under the pretence of seeing that the specimen was properly lighted.</p>
			<p>‘There is no need for you to go back to the office, Polton,’ my colleague said with a smile at his familiar. ‘We shall want your help with the microscope presently. Draw up a chair for yourself.’</p>
			<p>Polton seated himself opposite the instrument with a smile of intense gratification, and Thorndyke then resumed:</p>
			<p>‘This investigation was a much simpler affair than the other. You may remember, Miss Blake, showing me the locket that night when I called with Anstey at your studio, and you will remember that we noted the very unusual construction; the evident purpose of the maker to render it as strong and durable as workmanship could make it. This curious construction⁠—which I pointed out at the time⁠—caused me to examine it rather closely. And then I made a rather strange discovery.’</p>
			<p>Winifred leaned forward and gazed at him with breathless expectancy.</p>
			<p>‘It was concerned with the hallmark,’ he continued. ‘There are, as you see, four punch-marks. The first is a capital A with two palm-leaves surmounted by a crown. The second is an escutcheon or shape with the initials AH surmounted by a crown and over that a fleur-de-lis. The third is a capital L, and the fourth is the head of an animal which looks like a horse. This grouping shows that the piece is French. The first mark is the town mark, the second the maker’s mark, the third is the date letter, and the fourth is the mark of the Farmer of the Duty. Now, I happened to have had occasion to give some attention to the marks on old French plate, and I happened to have read, only an hour or two previously, the fragmentary narrative of Percival Blake. Accordingly, when I examined the hallmark and learned from it that this locket had been made in Paris in the year 1751, that fact at once arrested my attention.’</p>
			<p>‘How did you learn that from the hallmark?’ Winifred asked.</p>
			<p>‘It is the function of the hallmark to give that information,’ he replied. ‘The town-mark of Paris is a capital A surmounted by a crown, but it varies in style from year to year. This one is a Roman capital with two palm-leaves and a very small crown. That is the form used in the middle of the eighteenth century, but the date is definitely fixed by the date-letter⁠—in this case a capital L, which indicates the year 1751.</p>
			<p>‘It was, of course, a very remarkable coincidence that this locket should have been made at the place and in the year of Judith Blake’s death, and it naturally caused me to look at the little trinket more narrowly. Hitherto I had assumed, as you did, that the object that Percival referred to was the cat’s eye pendant. But I now recalled that he had not specifically mentioned the pendant, and that he had spoken of it as “the bauble” or “the trinket,” never as “the jewel.” It was thus just barely conceivable that this mysterious little object might be the one to which he was referring; and the instant the question was raised, the evidence supporting it began to run together like drops of water.</p>
			<p>‘First, there was the inscription, “O BIOC BPAXYO H AE TEXNH MAKPH,” “Life is short but Art is long.” It was the motto of the practitioner of some art or craft. But artists and craftsmen almost invariably use the Latin form, “Ars longa, Vita brevis⁠—Art is long. Life is short.” But there is one body of craftsmen who use the Greek form. It is the motto of the London College of Physicians, and moreover it is written by them in the same uncial characters, with the round, C-shaped sigma. Now Percival was a physician and a fellow of this very college, and he was an enthusiast who originally practised his profession for love and not from necessity or for a livelihood. What more natural than that he should use the motto of his own college?</p>
			<p>‘Then there was the construction of the locket⁠—everything sacrificed to permanence and durability. It fitted the circumstances perfectly. And there were the unusual suspension rings, specially adapted to take a cord or thong. I recalled the enigmatic words “gave me a string fr0m his bass viol, which he says will be the best of all.” Remembering that the bass viol would be a viol da gamba or violoncello, not a double-bass, we see that this was true; the stout gut string would last for a century or more.</p>
			<p>‘Then again there were the scripture references which you showed me. The first was “And then shall he depart from thee, both he and his children with him, and shall return unto his own family, and unto the possession of his fathers shall he return.” That was a most striking passage. It was an exact statement of Percival’s aim⁠—incidentally illustrating the way in which the other passages were to be treated; and when I noted that the principal word in the last reference was “parchments,” I felt that a prima facie case had been made out. I had little doubt that this locket was the “precious bauble” that was handed to⁠—and presumably lost by⁠—Jenifer.</p>
			<p>‘But after all this was only guesswork. We had to get down to certainties. And, fortunately, there was available an excellent and conclusive test. If the locket was Percival’s, the hair in it was almost certainly Judith’s. Now there was something very unusual about Judith’s hair. During her imprisonment it had undergone a most extraordinary change. Percival tells us that when she was released, “her hair, that had been like spun gold, was turned to a strange black.” This was very remarkable. Judith was evidently a true blonde, and when she was arrested, she must have been getting on for thirty years of age. But the hair of a blonde adult does not turn black from ill-health and grief. It tends rather to turn white. What could be the explanation of the change?</p>
			<p>‘It is a very curious one. Judith had been labouring in the mines in the Harz Mountains. These mines yield a number of different metals, and some of them are extremely poisonous. They are ancient mines, and in the Middle Ages, when the properties of metals were less understood, the terrible condition to which persons who worked in them were reduced by chronic poisoning was put down to the influence of a race of malignant gnomes who were believed to inhabit the mines and who were known as kobolds. In particular, the influence of the kobolds came to be associated with a particular, uncanny ore from which no metal could be⁠—in those days⁠—extracted, and in the end this ore came to be known by the name of these mine-gnomes or kobolds, and that name it bears this day, in the slightly altered form of cobalt.</p>
			<p>‘Now, the metal, cobalt, has one or two very distinctive properties. One is that of imparting a powerful and beautiful blue colour to substances with which it combines. This was the value of the ore, and for this it has been prized from quite ancient times. We find it in use everywhere. The blue of all the Chinese porcelain is cobalt. The blue of the old Delft pottery is cobalt. The blue in all the old stained-glass windows⁠—and modern ones too⁠—is cobalt.</p>
			<p>‘Then this metal has another curious property which it shares with arsenic and one or two other metals. It is capable of being absorbed into the body and producing poisonous effects, and when so absorbed, it becomes deposited in the skin, or, more correctly speaking, in the epidermis and its appendages⁠—the fingernails and the hair. But whereas the outer skin and the nails wear away and are cast off, the hair⁠—especially a woman’s hair⁠—remains attached for long periods. Consequently, in chronic cobalt poisoning, the hair becomes charged with a cobalt compound⁠—probably an oxide⁠—and is stained blue.</p>
			<p>‘Bearing these facts in mind, we can now understand what had happened to Judith. She had been sent to labour in a mine which yielded cobalt, and probably nickel. Her hair had not turned black, it had turned blue, though, in the mass, it would appear black⁠—a strange, unnatural black, as Percival tells us. Thus, if the hair in this locket was the hair of Judith Blake, it would appear blue when properly examined. I took an opportunity to get possession of the locket, and that very night I removed the remains of the cover-glass and picked out a single hair, which I mounted in Canada balsam and examined under the microscope. That hair is on the stage of the microscope now. Polton will bring it round and let you see it.’</p>
			<p>Our assistant tenderly carried the microscope round and set it before Winifred, and having adjusted the light and the focus, stepped back to watch the effect.</p>
			<p>‘But how extraordinary!’ she exclaimed as she looked into the eyepiece. ‘It looks like a thread of blue glass! And how strange and romantic!’</p>
			<p>Brodribb and Drayton rose from their chairs and came round, all agog to see this prodigy. In succession they gazed at it with murmurs of astonishment and then went back to their seats, still muttering.</p>
			<p>‘The appearance of that hair,’ Thorndyke resumed, ‘settled the question conclusively. This was Percival’s trinket beyond a doubt, and all that remained was to read the message inside. As we now knew what to look for, this presented no difficulty at all. It was no cipher or cryptogram. It was simply a collection of texts, from each of which, as the first one showed, the instructed reader would have no difficulty in picking out the significant word or phrase. We may as well just run through them and see what they tell us.</p>
			<p>‘Number one, Leviticus 25. 41, we have already considered. It is the preamble which indicates the purport of the remainder. I see you have your notebook. Will you read us out the next?’</p>
			<p>‘Number two,’ said Winifred, ‘is Psalms 121, 1: “I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help!” That is the passage, but it doesn’t convey any intelligible meaning to me.’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ said Thorndyke, ‘it doesn’t, because you have got the wrong Psalm. You looked up your reference in the English Authorised Version, overlooking the fact that Percival was probably a Catholic and certainly a resident in France, and also that the references were given with Latin titles, suggesting that he used the Latin Vulgate. This happens to be matter of vital importance in this case, as the Psalms are not numbered quite alike in the two Bibles. Psalm 121 in the Vulgate is 122 in the Authorised Version. Here is the Douay Bible, which is the official translation of the Vulgate, and if we refer to Psalm 121.1 in it, we find “I rejoiced at the things that were said to me; We shall go into the house of the Lord.” That is quite illuminating. It tells us that we are concerned with a church, and the next reference tells us what church. It is Actus Apostolorum 10.5’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ said Winifred,’ “And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surname is Peter.” ’</p>
			<p>‘That,’ said Thorndyke, ‘gives us the church of St. Peter. The next,’ he continued, glancing at the notebook which Winifred had handed to him, ‘is Nehemias 8. 4. “And Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood”⁠—we need not complete the passage. The pulpit of wood is obviously the significant part. Then we come to 3 Lib. Regum 7. 41⁠—by the way, that third book of Kings might have given you a hint that you were not dealing with the Authorised Version. It reads: “The two pillars, and the two bowls of the chapiters that were on the top of the two pillars,” etc. The meaning of this passage was not very clear. It had some connection with the pulpit of St. Peters Church, but what the connection was, it was not easy to guess. Of course, directly one saw the pulpit, the meaning was obvious.</p>
			<p>‘The next reference is to Psalm 31. 7, and again you have taken the Authorised Version and got the wrong Psalm. Psalm 31 in the Vulgate is Psalm 32 in the Authorised Version. Your reading is “I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities.” This, as you say, seems quite irrelevant, but if you had turned forward to Psalm 32. 7, you would have read: “Thou art my hiding-place” or “refuge,” as the Vulgate has it, which is very relevant indeed. The last reference is 2 Epist. ad Tim. “The cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest, bring with thee, and the books, but especially the parchments.”</p>
			<p>‘Thus, taking the references together, they suggest to us the ideas of parchments, a hiding-place, and the two pillars (and their capitals) of the wooden pulpit of the church of St. Peter. It was perfectly plain and simple to a reader who knew the kind of information that was being given and who knew of the existence of this particular church. To a stranger, on the other hand, it was perfectly meaningless and undecipherable.’</p>
			<p>‘It certainly looks very simple now that we have heard the explanation,’ said Winifred, ‘but it didn’t seem so when I was trying to work it out myself. There didn’t seem to be anything to go on.’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ agreed Sir Lawrence, ‘there didn’t seem to be anything to go on in either case. The clues were perfectly invisible, and I don’t believe any one but our friend would have discovered a particle of evidence.’</p>
			<p>Brodribb chuckled and reached out for the decanter. ‘I agree with you, Drayton,’ said he. ‘Thorndyke reminds me of that, probably fabulous, kind of Indian juggler who throws a rope into the air and proceeds to climb up it and pull it up after him. He can work without any visible means of support. However, he has conducted our various affairs to a highly satisfactory conclusion, and I propose that we charge our glasses in his honour and invite him to light the Trichinopoly, which, I believe, is his disgusting habit on occasions of this kind.’</p>
			<p>Accordingly the glasses were filled, the toast pledged, and the virulent little cheroot duly lighted; with which mystical rite the case of the Cat’s Eye was formally closed and dismissed into the domain of memory.</p>
			<p>There is little more to tell. I am finishing this narrative in a pleasant, panelled room in the old mansion of Beauchamp Blake, one of a suite assigned by Percy to Winifred and me, in which we commonly spend our weekends⁠—for our normal abiding-place is still the Temple. Percy is growing apace, and like his ancestor and namesake, refuses to abandon his professional ambitions. At present he is engaged, under the direction of a famous architect, in restoring the old house to its former comeliness, and only this morning I saw them together superintending the replacement of a perished fascia with a sturdy oaken plank, enriched with fine carving and bearing in raised letters the legend: ‘God’s Providence is Mine Inheritance.’</p>
			<hr/>
			<br/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
