<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2><a id="ch18" name="ch18"/>XVIII. — THE CAT’S EYE</h2>
			<p class="first">When we stood up at the bottom of the bank, I turned to Thorndyke and asked:</p>
			<p>‘What are we going to do now? We must make some effort to let those poor devils out.’</p>
			<p>That,’ he replied, ‘is an impossibility. In the first place they are certainly dead by now, and in the second it would be certain death to attempt to open that door. The chamber is full of the vapour of hydrocyanic acid.’</p>
			<p>‘But,’ I expostulated, ‘we ought to do something. Humanity demands that we should, at least, make a show of trying to save them.’</p>
			<p>‘I don’t see why,’ he replied coldly. ‘They are certainly dead, and if they were not, I would not risk a single hair of my head to save their lives. Still, if you have any feeling on the matter, we can go and reconnoitre. But we must look to our own safety.’</p>
			<p>He struck out along the floor of the moat at a brisk pace, and I kept up with him as well as my trembling knees would let me, for I was horribly shaken by the shocking experiences of the last few minutes, and still felt sick and faint. Thorndyke, on the other hand, was perfectly unmoved, and as he strode along at my side, I glanced at his calm face and found in his quiet, unconcerned manner something inhuman and repelling. It is true that those two wretches who now lay stark and dead on the floor of that dreadful chamber deserved no sympathy. They had digged a pit for us and fallen into it themselves. But still, they were human beings, and their lives were human lives, but Thorndyke seemed to value them no more than if they had been a couple of rats.</p>
			<p>About a hundred yards farther along the moat, we came to a cross path, at each end of which was a flight of rough steps up the bank. We ascended the steps on the house side, and these brought us to a small door with a Tudor arch in the head. A modern night-latch had been added to the ancient lock, but it was a simple affair which Thorndyke’s picklock opened in a few moments, and the door then yielded to a push. It opened into a corridor which I recognised as the one which we had passed through and where I had seen the face at the window⁠—a dead face it was now, I suspected. We turned and walked along it in the direction in which Blake had led us, and as we neared the end I began to be sensible of a faint odour in the musty air; an attenuated scent of bitter almonds.</p>
			<p>‘We must go warily,’ said Thorndyke. ‘The next room, I think, is the one out of which the secret chamber opens.’</p>
			<p>He paused and stood looking dubiously at the door; and as he stood hesitating, I pushed past him, and seizing the handle, flung the door open and looked into the room. But it was only an instantaneous glance, showing me the uninterrupted wall, the wooden block lying where Blake had kicked it, and close by, a dead rat. The sight of that little corpse and the sickening smell of bitter almonds that suddenly grew strong in the air as the door opened, produced an instant revulsion. My concern for our would-be murderers was extinguished by a thrill of alarm for my own safety. I drew the door to hurriedly and followed Thorndyke, who was walking quickly away.</p>
			<p>‘It is no use, Anstey,’ he said, a little impatiently. ‘It is mere sentiment, and a silly one at that. All we can do is to open these windows and clear off until the gas has diffused out. It won’t take so very long with all the gaping joints in this old woodwork.’</p>
			<p>‘And what are we going to do meanwhile?’</p>
			<p>‘We must find the housekeeper, if there is one, and let her know the state of affairs. Then we must send information to the police at Aylesbury, and before they arrive, I think it would be well to prepare a written statement, which we can sign in their presence and which should contain all that we are prepared to say about the matter before the inquest.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ I agreed ‘that seems to be the best course’; and with this we proceeded to open the rusty casements of the corridor and then made our way back to the new wing of the house.</p>
			<p>The inn-keeper had certainly been right. Squire Blake had been very far from lavish in the matter of retainers. One after another of the great, dusty rooms we crossed or peered into without encountering a single serving-man or maid. The house seemed to be utterly deserted. At last we came to the entrance hall, and here, as we stood commenting on this extraordinary solitude, a door opened and a faded and shabby elderly woman, looking like a rather superior charwoman, emerged. She looked at us curiously and then asked:</p>
			<p>‘Can you tell me, sir, if Mr. Blake is ready for lunch?’</p>
			<p>‘I am sorry to say,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘that Mr. Blake has met with a mishap. He has locked himself in his dark room and has poisoned himself accidentally with some chemicals.’</p>
			<p>‘Oh dear!’ exclaimed the woman, looking at Thorndyke with a sort of stupefied dismay. ‘Hadn’t some one better go and fetch him out?’</p>
			<p>‘That is not possible at present,’ said Thorndyke. ‘The room is full of poison gas.’</p>
			<p>‘But,’ the woman protested, ‘he may die if no one goes to his assistance.’</p>
			<p>‘He is dead already,’ said Thorndyke, ‘and there is another person in the room with him, who is also dead’.</p>
			<p>‘That will be Mr. Meyer, his valet,’ said the woman, staring at Thorndyke with a sort of bewildered horror, puzzled, no doubt, by the incongruity between his tragic tidings and his calm, matter-of-fact demeanour. ‘And you say they have both killed themselves! Lord! Lord! What a dreadful thing!’ She clasped her hands, and gazing helplessly from one of us to the other, asked: ‘What are we to do? Oh! what are we to do?’</p>
			<p>‘Is there any one whom we could send into Aylesbury?’ asked Thorndyke, ‘We ought to let the police know of the accident, and we ought to get a doctor.’</p>
			<p>There is only the lodge-keeper,’ she whimpered shakily ‘He could go on Mr. Meyer’s bicycle. Dear, dear! what an awful thing it is!’</p>
			<p>‘If you will have the bicycle brought to the door,’ said Thorndyke, ‘I will write a note and take it up to the lodge-keeper myself. There are writing materials in the library I suppose?’</p>
			<p>She supposed there were, and showed us into the room, where we found some notepaper and envelopes. Then she departed, wringing her hands and muttering, to fetch the bicycle.</p>
			<p>‘I shall not give any details in this note,’ Thorndyke said as he sat down at the table and uncapped his fountain pen, ‘I shall just tell them that Mr. Blake and his valet have met their deaths⁠—presumably⁠—by poisoning, that it is a police case, and that the Divisional Surgeon had better accompany the police officer.’</p>
			<p>With this he wrote the note, addressing it to the Superintendent or Chief Constable, and he had just closed and sealed it when the woman reappeared to announce the arrival of the bicycle, which had been brought to the door by a young woman, apparently a housemaid. Thorndyke mounted the machine and rode away swiftly up the drive, and I turned back into the house, followed by the two women, who, now that the first shock had spent itself, were devoured by curiosity and eager to extract information.</p>
			<p>Their efforts in this direction, however, were not very successful, for, although the facts must very soon become public property, it seemed desirable at present to say as little as possible, while, as for any explanation of this extraordinary affair, I was as much in the dark as they were. So I maintained a discreet, though difficult, reticence until Thorndyke reappeared, when the two women retired and left us in possession of the room.</p>
			<p>‘I sent our friend off with the note,’ said my colleague ‘and I told him enough to make sure that he will put on the pace. It is only about four miles, and as the police probably have a car, we may expect them pretty soon. I will just draft out a statement of the actual occurrences, and you had better write, on the same paper, a confirmatory declaration. We can read them to the officer and sign them in his presence.’</p>
			<p>He proceeded to write out a concise, but fairly full, narrative of what had befallen us in this house, with a brief statement of the nature of our business here, and when I had read it through, I wrote at the foot a paragraph confirming the statement and accepting it as my own. This occupied some considerable time, and we had not long finished when there was a somewhat peremptory ring at the bell, and a minute later, the elderly woman⁠—whom I assumed to be the housekeeper⁠—entered, accompanied by a police officer and a gentleman in civilian clothes. The former introduced himself briefly and got to business without preamble.</p>
			<p>‘Concerning this note, sir,’ said he, ‘you have given no particulars. I suppose there is no doubt that Mr. Blake and his valet are really dead?’</p>
			<p>‘I should say there is no doubt at all,’ replied Thorndyke. ‘But I have written out a statement of the particulars, from which you will be able to judge. Shall I read it to you?’</p>
			<p>‘I think the doctor had better see the bodies first,’ was the reply.</p>
			<p>‘Certainly,’ agreed the doctor. ‘We don’t want to waste precious time on statements. Where are they?’</p>
			<p>‘I will take you to them,’ said Thorndyke, ‘but I must tell you that they are shut in a room which is filled with the vapour of hydrocyanic acid.’</p>
			<p>The two men gave a startled look at Thorndyke, and as he led the way out into the hall and across the new wing, they followed, talking together earnestly but in low tones. Presently they overtook us, and the officer remarked:</p>
			<p>‘This is a very extraordinary affair, sir. Has no attempt been made to get these men out of that room?’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ replied Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>‘But why not?’</p>
			<p>‘I think you will see when you get there.’</p>
			<p>‘But,’ exclaimed the doctor, ‘surely some effort ought to have been made to save them! You don’t mean to say that you have left them in that poisoned air and made no attempt even to open the doors and windows?’</p>
			<p>‘We have opened some of the neighbouring windows,’ said Thorndyke; and he proceeded to give a description of the secret chamber and its surroundings, to which the doctor listened with pursed-up lips.</p>
			<p>‘Well,’ he remarked dryly, ‘you seem to have been very careful. Is it much farther?’</p>
			<p>‘It opens out of the next room but one,’ replied Thorndyke, and as he spoke I detected in the air a very faint odour of bitter almonds. I fancy the doctor noticed it, too, but he made no remark, and when we reached the end of the corridor and Thorndyke indicated the door that gave access to the room, both men hurried forward. The doctor turned the handle and flung the door open, and he and the officer stepped briskly across the threshold. And then they both stopped short, and I guessed that they had seen the dead rat. The next moment they both backed out hastily and the doctor slammed the door behind him and followed us to the discreet distance at which we had halted.</p>
			<p>‘The vapour is as you say,’ said the latter, visibly crestfallen, ‘in an extreme state of concentration.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ agreed Thorndyke, ‘but it is much less than it was. If you will go a little farther away, I will throw the door open and we can then retire and let the vapour diffuse out.’</p>
			<p>‘Do you think it safe, sir?’ queried the officer. ‘There’s a fearful reek in there’; then, as Thorndyke approached the door, he and the doctor (and I) walked away quickly up the corridor; and looking back, I saw my colleague, pinching his nostrils together, fling the door wide open and hurry after us.</p>
			<p>When we had retired to a safe distance, the officer halted and said:</p>
			<p>‘You were saying something about a statement, sir. Shall we have it now? I don’t understand this affair in the least.’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke produced the statement from his pocket and proceeded to read it aloud; and as he read, the two men listened with growing astonishment and not very completely concealed incredulity. When he had finished, I read out my statement, and then we both signed the document, the officer adding his signature as the witness.</p>
			<p>‘Well.’ he said, as he put the paper in his pocket-book, ‘this is a most extraordinary story. Can you give any kind of explanation?’</p>
			<p>‘At the moment,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘I am not proposing to go beyond the actual occurrence⁠—certainly not until I have seen the bodies.’</p>
			<p>The officer looked dissatisfied, and naturally enough. On the facts presented, he would have been quite justified in arresting us both on a suspicion of murder; and indeed, but for Thorndyke’s eminent position and my own status as a King’s Counsel, he would probably have done so. As it was, he contented himself with the expression of a hope that we should presently be able to throw some light on the mystery, on which remark my colleague offered no comment.</p>
			<p>When about half an hour had passed, Thorndyke suggested that the vapour had probably cleared off from the room out of which the secret chamber opened and that it might now be possible to open the door of the chamber itself. Our friends were somewhat dubious, however. The sight of the dead rat had effectually dissipated the doctor’s enthusiasm and engendered a very wholesome caution.</p>
			<p>‘Perhaps,’ said Thorndyke, ‘as my friend and I know where to find the concealed fastenings of the door, we could open it more safely. What do you say, Anstey?’</p>
			<p>I was not much more eager than the doctor, but as Thorndyke would certainly have gone alone if I had refused, I assented with assumed readiness, and we started down the corridor, followed at a little distance by the other two. On entering the room, in which the odour of the poison had now become quite faint, Thorndyke opened both the casements wide and then slid the block of wood close up to the foot of the door.</p>
			<p>‘Now,’ said he, ‘when I say “ready,” take a deep breath, close your mouth, pinch your nostrils, and then push in the right-hand boss. I will press the other one and open and fix the door. Ready!’</p>
			<p>I pushed in the boss, and immediately afterwards Thorndyke pressed in the other one. The door yielded, and as we pushed it wide open, he thrust the block in after it. Glancing in, I had a momentary glimpse of the dark chamber with the two dead men lying huddled on the floor and an extinguished lantern by the side of the nearer one. It was but the vision of an instant, for almost as the door opened, I turned with Thorndyke and ran out of the room; but in that instant it was imprinted on my memory for ever. Even as I write, I can see with horrible vividness that dark, gloomy hold and the two sprawling corpses stretched towards the door that had cut them off in the moment of their crime from the land of the living.</p>
			<p>The first breath that I took, as I came out of the room, made me aware that the poisonous vapour was pouring out of the chamber of death. Our two friends had also noticed it and were already in full retreat, and we all made our way out of the old wing back to the library, there to wait until the poison should have become dissipated. The officer made one or two ineffectual efforts to extract from Thorndyke some explanation of the amazing events set forth in his statement, and then we settled down to a somewhat desultory conversation on subjects criminal and medical.</p>
			<p>We had been in the library rather more than half an hour and were beginning to discuss the possibility of removing the bodies, when the doorbell rang, and a few moments later the housekeeper entered, followed by Sir Lawrence Drayton, Winifred, and Mr. Brodribb, The latter came in with a genial and knowing smile, which faded with remarkable suddenness as his eye lighted on the police officer.</p>
			<p>‘Why, what the deuce is the matter?’ exclaimed Sir Lawrence as he also observed the officer.</p>
			<p>‘The matter is,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘that there has been a tragedy. Mr. Blake is dead.’</p>
			<p>‘Dead!’ exclaimed Drayton and Brodribb in unison.</p>
			<p>‘And what.’ asked the former, ‘do you mean by a tragedy?’</p>
			<p>‘Perhaps,’ said Thorndyke, ‘the officer would allow me to read you the written statement that I have given him. I may say,’ he added, addressing the officer ‘that this lady and these gentlemen are interested parties and that they will all be called as witnesses at the inquest.’</p>
			<p>This latter statement, utterly incomprehensible to me, seemed to be equally so to every one else present. Sir Lawrence and Brodribb stared in astonishment at Thorndyke, while the officer, with a frown of perplexity, slowly took the statement from his pocket-book and handed it to my colleague without a word. Thereupon the latter, having waited for the housekeeper to withdraw, read the statement aloud, and I watched the amazement growing on the faces of the listeners as he read.</p>
			<p>‘But, my dear Thorndyke!’ Sir Lawrence exclaimed, when he had finished, ‘this is a most astounding affair. It looks as if this search had been a mere pretext to get you here and murder you!’</p>
			<p>‘That, I have no doubt, is the case,’ said Thorndyke, ‘and that I suspected to be the object when Brodribb conveyed the invitation to me.’</p>
			<p>‘The devil you did!’ said Brodribb. ‘But why should you suspect that Blake wanted to murder you?’</p>
			<p>‘I think,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘that when we have seen the bodies you will be able to answer that question yourself. And I should say,’ he added, turning to the doctor, ‘that it would now be possible to get the bodies out. Most of the fumes will have blown away by this time.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ the doctor agreed, evidently all agog to see and hear the explanation of this mystery. ‘We had better get a sheet from the housekeeper and then go and see if we can get those poor wretches out.’</p>
			<p>He set forth in company with the officer, and as soon as the two strangers had left the room, Brodribb attacked my colleague.</p>
			<p>‘You are a most inscrutable fellow, Thorndyke. Do you mean to tell me that when you proposed this search, you were just planning to give this man, Blake, an opportunity to murder you?’</p>
			<p>‘To try to murder me,’ Thorndyke corrected.</p>
			<p>‘And me,’ I added. ‘It begins to dawn on me that the post of junior to Thorndyke is no sinecure.’</p>
			<p>Brodribb smiled appreciatively, and Sir Lawrence remarked:</p>
			<p>‘We seem to be navigating in deep waters. I must confess that I am completely out of my depth, but I suppose it is useless to make any appeal.’</p>
			<p>‘I should rather say nothing more at present,’ Thorndyke replied. ‘In a few minutes I shall be able to make the crucial test which I expect will render explanations unnecessary.’</p>
			<p>I speculated on the meaning of this statement, but could make nothing of it, and I gathered from the perplexed expressions of the two lawyers that they were in a similar condition. But there was not much time to turn the matter over, for, very shortly, the police officer reappeared to announce that the bodies had been removed from the chamber and were ready for inspection and identification.</p>
			<p>‘It will not be necessary, I suppose,’ said Drayton, as we rose to accompany the officer, ‘for Miss Blake to come with us?’</p>
			<p>‘I think,’ answered Thorndyke, ‘that it is desirable and, in fact, necessary, that Miss Blake should see the bodies. I am sorry,’ he added, ‘that she should be subjected to the unpleasantness, but the matter is really important.’</p>
			<p>‘I can’t imagine in what respect,’ said Drayton, ‘but if you say that it is, that settles the matter.’</p>
			<p>On this we set forth, Thorndyke and the officer leading the way, and as we crossed the great, desolate rooms I talked to Winifred about the old house and the secret chamber to divert her attention from our rather gruesome errand. At the end of the long corridor, as we entered the large room, we saw the doctor standing by two shrouded figures that lay on the floor near a window, with their feet towards us. We halted beside them in solemn silence, and the doctor stooped, and taking the two corners of the sheet, drew it away, with his eyes fixed on Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>For a moment we all stood looking down on the two still and ghastly figures without speaking a word; but suddenly Winifred uttered a cry of horror and started back, clutching my arm.</p>
			<p>‘What is it?’ demanded Drayton.</p>
			<p>The man!’ she exclaimed breathlessly, pointing to the body of the valet, which I had already recognised. ‘The man who tried to murder me in the empty house!’</p>
			<p>‘And who stabbed you that night at Hampstead?’ said Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>‘Yes, yes,’ she gasped. ‘It is he, I am certain of it.’</p>
			<p>Sir Lawrence turned a look of eager inquiry on my colleague.</p>
			<p>‘This is an amazing thing,’ he exclaimed. ‘How on earth did this fellow come to be associated with Mr. Blake?’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke stooped over the dead squire, and unfastening the collar and neckband, drew the shirt open at the throat. There came into sight a stout, silken cord encircling the neck, which Thorndyke gently pulled up, when I saw that there was suspended from it a small gold pendant with a single large stone. As the little jewel was drawn out from its hiding-place, Winifred stooped forward eagerly.</p>
			<p>‘It is the Cat’s Eye!’ she exclaimed.</p>
			<p>‘Impossible!’ Sir Lawrence ejaculated. ‘Let me look at it.’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke cut the cord and handed the pendant to Drayton, who turned it over in his hand, gazing at it with an expression of amazement and incredulity.</p>
			<p>‘It is,’ he said at length. ‘This is certainly the pendant that was stolen from my poor brother’s house. I recognise it without doubt by the shape and colour of the stone, and there is the inscription on the back, “Dulce Domum,” which I remember now. It is unquestionably the stolen pendant. But what does it mean, Thorndyke? You seemed to know that this man was wearing it.’</p>
			<p>‘The meaning of it is, Sir Lawrence,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘that this man’⁠—he pointed down at the dead squire⁠—‘is the man who murdered your brother. It was he who fired the pistol.’</p>
			<p>Sir Lawrence looked down at the dead man with a frown of disgust.</p>
			<p>‘Do you mean to tell me, Thorndyke,’ said he, ‘that this man murdered poor Andrew just to get possession of this trumpery toy?’</p>
			<p>‘I do,’ replied Thorndyke, ‘though, of course, the murder was not a part of the original plan. But he carried the pistol with him to use if necessary.’</p>
			<p>‘He has got a pistol in his pocket now,’ said the officer. ‘I felt it as I was dragging him out of the secret room.’</p>
			<p>He plunged his hand into the dead man’s coat pocket and drew out a small automatic pistol, which he handed to Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>This seems to be the very weapon,’ said the latter; ‘a Baby Browning. You remember that we identified the pattern from the empty cartridge-case.’</p>
			<p>I had noticed a peculiar expression of perplexity gathering on Mr. Brodribb’s face. Now the old solicitor turned to Thorndyke and said:</p>
			<p>‘This is a very unaccountable affair, Thorndyke. We didn’t know a great deal about Arthur Blake, but it always appeared that he was quite a decent sort of man, whereas this robbery and murder that he actually did commit, and the murder that he was attempting when he met his death, are cases of sheer ruffianism. I don’t understand it.’</p>
			<p>Thorndyke turned to the doctor. ‘Would you mind telling us,’ said he, ‘if there is anything abnormal in the condition of this man’s left knee-cap?’</p>
			<p>The doctor stared at Thorndyke in astonishment. ‘Have you any reason to suppose that there is?’ he asked.</p>
			<p>‘I have an impression,’ was the reply, ‘that there is an old fracture with imperfect ligamentous union.’</p>
			<p>The doctor stooped, and drawing up the trouser on the left side, placed his hand on the knee.</p>
			<p>‘You are quite right,’ he said, looking up at Thorndyke with an expression of surprise. There is a transverse fracture with a gap of fully two inches between the fragments.’</p>
			<p>Suddenly Mr. Brodribb broke out eagerly with a look of intense curiosity at my colleague: ‘It can’t be! What is it that you are suggesting, Thorndyke?’</p>
			<p>‘I am suggesting that this man was not Arthur Blake. I suggest that he was an Australian adventurer named Hugh Owen.’</p>
			<p>‘But,’ objected Brodribb, ‘Owen was reported to have died some years ago. His body was found and identified.’</p>
			<p>‘A mutilated skeleton was found,’ retorted Thorndyke, ‘and was identified as that of Hugh Owen by means of a ring which was known to have belonged to Owen. I suggest that the remains were those of Arthur Blake; that he had been murdered by Owen, and that the ring had been put on the body for the purpose of ensuring a false identification.’</p>
			<p>That is perfectly possible,’ Brodribb admitted. Then who do you suggest that this other man is?’</p>
			<p>‘I suggest that this other person is a woman named Laura Levinsky.’</p>
			<p>‘Well,’ said Brodribb, ‘that need not be left a matter of guesswork. I don’t think I mentioned it to you, but that Australian police official told me that Levinsky had a tattoo-mark on the right forearm⁠—the letters H and L with a heart between. Let us see if this person has such a mark.’</p>
			<p>The police officer bent down over the dead valet, and unfastening the right wristband, drew the sleeve up above the elbow.</p>
			<p>‘Ha!’ exclaimed Brodribb as there were revealed, standing out on the greenish-white skin as if painted in blue ink, the letters H and L with a small, misshapen heart between them, ‘you are right, Thorndyke, as you always are. And I suppose she was a party to the murder?’</p>
			<p>‘I take it,’ said Thorndyke, ‘that these two wretches murdered Arthur Blake, removed all identifiable objects from the corpse, put Owen’s ring on its finger, and tumbled it over the cliff, shooting down a mass of rocks and stones on top of it. Then they took possession of all Blake’s papers and money and separated, coming to England on different ships. I assume that no measures were ever taken to verify Blake’s identity?’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ replied Brodribb. There was no one who could identify him. He sent a letter, in answer to mine, saying when he would arrive. He arrived about the date mentioned, and presented all the necessary credentials. The question of identity was never raised.’</p>
			<p>For some moments we all stood looking down on the bodies of the two adventures in silence. Presently Drayton asked, holding out the pendant:</p>
			<p>‘What is to be done with this? It was stolen from my brother, but it seems that, as it is an heirloom, it should be handed to Miss Blake.’</p>
			<p>‘For the present,’ said Thorndyke ‘it must remain in the custody of the police, as it will have to be put in evidence at the inquest. We will take a receipt for it. But as to its being the missing heirloom, I doubt that very much. It does not agree with the description, and I should suppose that the original jewel will have been hidden with the title-deeds.’</p>
			<p>‘That could hardly be,’ said Winifred, ‘though I agree with you that the inscription “Dulce domum” doesn’t seem to be the right one. But you will remember that Percival’s manuscript distinctly says that the jewel was taken away and given to Jenifer to keep for the child James.’</p>
			<p>‘That is not my reading of the manuscript,’ said Thorndyke. ‘But we can discuss that on another occasion. If we give our respective names and addresses to the officer, we shall have concluded our business here.’</p>
			<p>At this hint, the officer produced a large, official notebook in which he entered the names and addresses of all the witnesses in the case, and when the doctor had once more covered the corpses with the sheet, we turned to retrace our steps to the library. As I walked along the corridor at Winifred’s side, I glanced at her a little anxiously, for it had been a rather terrible experience. She met my glance, and resting her hand on my arm for a moment, she said in a low voice:</p>
			<p>‘It was a gruesome sight, Robin, that poor little wretch lying there with that awful, fixed stare of horror on her face. But I couldn’t feel sorry for her, nor even for the man, though there was something very dreadful⁠—almost pitiful⁠—in the way in which his dead hand clutched that little brass knob. It must have been a frightful moment when he found that the knob was useless and that he and his companion were caught in their own hideous trap. But I can’t be sorry for them. I can only think of the relief to know that you are safe and that I am free.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes,’ said I, ‘it is an unspeakable relief to feel that you can now go abroad in safety⁠—that that continual menace is a thing of the past, thanks to Thorndyke’s uncanny power of seeing through a stone wall.’</p>
			<p>‘I am not sure ‘said she ‘that I am not disposed to quarrel with Dr. Thorndyke for calmly walking you into this murderer’s den.’</p>
			<p>‘I don’t think there was ever any real danger,’ I replied. ‘They couldn’t have murdered us by overt methods, and as to the other methods, I have no doubt that Thorndyke had got them all calculated out in advance and provided for. He seems to foresee everything.’</p>
			<p>When we reached the library, and Thorndyke and I had replaced our pistols and jemmies in the suitcase (a proceeding which the police officer watched with bulging eyes and open mouth), Drayton asked:</p>
			<p>‘Have you two got any sort of conveyance? Because, if you haven’t, and you don’t mind a pretty tight squeeze, I can give you a lift to the station.’</p>
			<p>We accepted the offer gladly; and having made our adieux to the officer and the doctor, we went out and packed ourselves and our impedimenta into the car as soon as the lawful occupants had taken their seats. As we moved off, I observed the housekeeper and two other women watching us with concentrated interest; and at the gate, as we swept past the lodge, I had an instantaneous glimpse of the keeper’s face at the window, with another countenance that seemed reminiscent of the ‘King’s Head.’</p>
			<p>The swiftly-gliding car devoured the mile or two of road to the station in a few minutes. We drew up in the station yard, and while the chauffeur was handing out our luggage, Drayton stood up, and laying his hand on Thorndyke’s shoulder, said earnestly:</p>
			<p>‘I have spoken no word of thanks to you, Thorndyke, for what you have done, but I hope you understand that I am your debtor for life. Your management of this case is beyond my wildest expectations, and how you did it, I cannot imagine. Some day you must give me the intellectual satisfaction of hearing how the investigation was carried out. Now I can only congratulate you on your brilliant success.’</p>
			<p>‘I should like to second that,’ said Brodribb; ‘and talking of success, I suppose you didn’t find those deeds after all?’</p>
			<p>‘No,’ replied Thorndyke. ‘They are not there.’</p>
			<p>‘Oh, aren’t they?’ Brodribb. ‘Then, if you are so certain where they are not, you probably know where they are?’</p>
			<p>‘That seems a sound inference,’ replied Thorndyke. ‘But we can’t discuss the matter here. If you care to come to my chambers tomorrow, at two o’clock, we might go into it further, and, in fact, conduct an exploration.’</p>
			<p>‘Does that invitation include me?’ Winifred asked.</p>
			<p>‘Most undoubtedly,’ he replied. ‘You are the principal party to the transaction. And perhaps you might bring the Book of Hours with you.’</p>
			<p>‘I believe he has got the deeds stowed away in his chambers,’ said Brodribb; and although my colleague shook his head, I felt no certainty that the old lawyer was not right.</p>
			<p>When the car had moved off, we carried our cases into the station and were relieved to find that we had but a few minutes to wait for a train. I postponed my attack on my secretive colleague until we were snugly established in a compartment by ourselves. Not that I had any expectations. Thorndyke’s reticence had conveyed to me the impression that the time for explanations had not yet come; and so it turned out when I proceeded to put my questions.</p>
			<p>‘Wait till we have finished the case, Anstey,’ said he. ‘Then, if you have not worked out the scheme of the investigation in the interval, we can review and discuss it.’</p>
			<p>‘But surely,’ said I, ‘we have finished with the case of the murder of Andrew Drayton?’</p>
			<p>‘Not entirely,’ he replied. ‘What you have never realised, I think, is the connection between the problem of the murder and the problem of the missing documents. This is a very curious and interesting case, and those two problems have a very strange connection. But for Owen’s determination to possess the cat’s eye pendant at all costs, those documents might have lain in their hiding-place, unsuspected, for centuries.’</p>
			<p>This statement, while it explained Thorndyke’s hitherto unaccountable interest in Percy Blake’s claim, only plunged the other problem into deeper obscurity. During the remainder of the journey I tried to reconstitute the train of events to see if I could trace the alleged connection between the two problems. But not a glimmer of light could I see in any direction; and in the end I gave it up, consoling myself with the reflection that the morrow would probably see the last act played out and that then I might hope for a final elucidation.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
